citigroup said monday that it beat wall street predictions for quarterly earnings after stripping out a big loss on its retail brokerage and other one-time charges .	net income was $ 3.3 billion , excluding one-time items .	that amounts to $ 1.06 per share , beating the 96 cents predicted by analysts polled by financial data provider factset .	analyst predictions generally exclude one-time charges and gains .	revenue , after the special charges , was $ 19.4 billion .	that beat expectations of $ 18 billion .	the bank wrote down $ 4.7 billion after agreeing to sell its portion of retail brokerage morgan stanley smith barney for less than it had hoped .	including that and other one-time charges , net income was $ 468 million , and revenue was $ 14 billion .	without the special charges , net income and revenue were both up .	with them , net income and revenue were both down .	revenue in the investment bank 's lending operations declined , while revenue from trading stocks and bonds rose .	in a statement , ceo vikram pandit exuded caution , noting that the bank had managed to increase its cushion of extra capital . "	we are managing risk very carefully given global economic conditions so we can continue to grow our businesses safely and soundly , " pandit said .	his bank 's earnings also sounded a familiar theme for the banking industry this season : revenue powered by mortgages .	retail banking revenue jumped 35 percent , mostly because of mortgages .	in the depths of the 2008 financial crisis , mortgage lending was a scourge on many banks , with institutions like wachovia and bear stearns collapsing under the weight of risky home loans they 'd made or the exotic mortgage-backed securities they 'd bet on .	for now , though , it 's a boon .	on friday , both wells and jpmorgan reported that a surge in home lending pushed them to record profits .	still , the mortgage units are weathering a flood of lawsuits and regulatory charges .	in august , citigroup agreed to settle lawsuits from shareholders who said the bank did n't properly warn them of its exposure to risky subprime debt .	the bank did not admit wrongdoing , but said it wanted to put the matter behind it .	citi is the country 's fifth-largest mortgage lender , according to the trade publication inside mortgage finance , but it 's a small player compared with wells fargo , which controls about a third of the market , and jpmorgan , which controls about 11 percent .	the bulk of the bank 's one-time charges came from the $ 4.7 billion charge it took after agreeing to eventually sell its portion of retail brokerage morgan stanley smith barney to morgan stanley .	the negotiations were a coup for morgan stanley : citi did n't get nearly the price it was hoping for .	the charge is also greater than the bank had first estimated , $ 2.9 billion .	citi is still reshaping itself from the financial crisis , when it was one of the most toxic banks among its peers and nearly collapsed .	so ceo pandit has been reshaping the bank into something smaller and , he hopes , more controllable , selling off units that he sees as non-essential .	getting rid of the retail brokerage is a break from the plans of many of his peers , though .	banks are looking for reliable , if boring , sources of revenue , and brokerage is driven by fees that clients pay for getting advice on how to manage their money , rather than gains or losses made from the risky business of trying to predict the markets through trading .	pandit said monday that the deal with morgan stanley " has given us more certainty on our exit from that business , " and also allowed the bank to trim the unit where it keeps crisis-era assets that it 's trying to wind down .	the bank also had to take a one-time charge of $ 776 million because of a controversial accounting rule related to how banks value their debt .	it forces banks to book a charge when the value of their debt rises , because theoretically , they would have to pay more to buy their bonds back from investors .	the rule has been sharply criticized by the banking industry as confusing or misleading , since it essentially crimps a bank 's results it is doing well and boosts them when a bank is doing poorly .	it 's expected that the accounting rule could be phased out as early as next year .	citi 's stock price jumped nearly 2 percent before the market opened , rising 66 cents to $ 35.41 .
a bill meant to extend south carolina 's public recognition of fallen military service members is going to the senate floor .	when a south carolina resident dies in combat , state law requires flags flown atop the statehouse to be lowered to half-staff on the day of the funeral .	the bill advanced tuesday by senate finance would lengthen that time .	flags would be lowered the day those deaths are announced and not returned to full staff until two days after the residents ' funerals .	advocates in the audience included family members of 1st lt. ryan rawl of lexington and spc. john meador ii of columbia .	they were among three national guard soldiers killed in afghanistan last june when their patrol was attacked by a suicide bomber .	senators recognized their families during the meeting .
shares in citic securities ltd. and guosen securities ltd. fell friday by the 10 percent daily limit after both said they were being probed by regulators .	a third brokerage , haitong securities ltd. , issued a similar announcement after trading in its shares was suspended friday morning .	none gave details .	the shanghai composite index closed down 5.5 percent .	authorities have detained securities executives , an investment fund manager , government employees and a reporter for a business magazine following the collapse in prices that began in early june .	the announcements that brokerages themselves were under investigation represented a further widening of the probes .	the investigations were seen by many as an attempt by the ruling communist party to deflect blame for the 30 percent fall by the shanghai index after state media encouraged the public to buy stocks .	citic is china 's biggest brokerage and part of citic group , the cabinet 's main holding company .	guosen and haitong are among the country 's 10 biggest securities firms .	in september , the police ministry announced citic executives including its general manager , cheng boming , were suspected of insider trading and leaking sensitive information .	the previous month , the official xinhua news agency said eight citic employees and one current and one former employee of the market regulator were suspected of illegal stock trading .	a star chinese fund manager , xu xiang , was detained nov. 2 on suspicion of insider trading , according to xinhua .	the market benchmark soared more than 150 percent beginning late last year before hitting a peak june 12 and plunging .	the downturn triggered complaints politically favored insiders profited at the expense of small investors .	beijing responded by barring large shareholders from selling and ordering executives to buy back any recently sold stock in their own companies .
gov. susana martinez has a new chief spokesman .	the albuquerque journal ( http://goo.gl/iktf9e ) reports that chris sanchez officially began serving as communications director in the governor 's office monday , replacing enrique knell .	sanchez was martinez 's campaign spokesman during her 2014 re-election candidacy and served as spokesman for house republican leaders during the 2015 legislative session .	he also formerly worked in former congresswoman heather wilson 's unsuccessful 2012 campaign for a u.s. senate seat and as a public information officer for the state higher education department .	sanchez says knell is about to start a new job as the regulation and licensing department 's director of boards and commissions .
pulaski county will receive a $ 1 million grant from the economic development administration to build a conference center at the verizon arena in downtown north little rock .	sens. blanche lincoln and mark pryor and rep. vic snyder , d-ark. , announced in a joint statement monday that the project will include construction of the six bridges innovation conference center , exhibit and kitchen space and the purchase of folding partitions that will allow the space to be divided into three smaller conference rooms .	the center will host businesses , schools and other organizations and allow them to collaborate on ways to advance innovation , entrepreneurship and cultural enrichment in pulaski county .	construction will begin in early 2011 , and the center is expected to open within the year .
mayor paul winfield has proposed a citywide referendum on dissolving vicksburg 's bus system , called nroute , as an independent agency and returning it to city control .	nroute ended fiscal 2012 with an $ 83,726 deficit and faces a projected $ 96,000 deficit in 2013 . "	putting it under the city will allow us to better monitor the finances and spending , " winfield said .	winfield said a referendum can added to the city 's june 4 ballot , the vicksburg post reported ( http://bit.ly/w1vdix ) .	nroute began as a city department in 2006 .	in 2007 it was made an independent agency operated by a five-member advisory board and a hired executive director .	nroute 's current budget is $ 886,110 , including about $ 470,000 in federal transportation money .	the rest of the system 's budget comes from fares , grants and supplements from the city and warren county .	warren county 's supplement is $ 30,100 and the city 's is $ 135,000 .	the nroute system has been plagued with financial problems since 2007 .	fares collected since it started total $ 244,219 , while it has received an estimated $ 4.3 million from grants and local funds .	the city has spent about $ 1.3 million , the county about $ 192,000 , and $ 2.8 million has been obtained through grants .	ridership has declined since fiscal 2008-2009 , when nroute had its highest participation with more than 57,000 passengers .	the total ridership in 2011 was 35,242 ; it was up slightly at 35,669 in fiscal 2012 .
udall residents will vote aug. 3 whether to recall the town 's mayor for apparently engaging in a questionable business deal .	christopher lette was elected without opposition in 2008 to be mayor of the southern kansas town of about 750 residents .	he told the winfield daily courier that his construction company accepted a contract to demolish a run-down house about three years ago , then donated the $ 8,000 cost back to the city .	lette says he checked with the kansas league of municipalities to make sure the transaction was ethical , and was told that it was .	a recall committee member declined to comment other than saying lette had helped award a contract to his own company .
a man arrested in indiana after allegedly telling officers there he 'd shot and killed a man in vermont will be held without bail after pleading not guilty to first-degree murder at his arraignment .	peter lavalette , 49 , most recently of westfield and jay , entered the plea wednesday to the upgraded first degree murder charge in vermont superior court in newport .	at the court appearance , lavalette 's attorney waived a hearing and will continue to be held without bail .	lavalette was arrested in indiana july 1 after being stopped for a traffic violation .	he told police in that state that he 'd shot george kouzoujian , 61 , at his westfield home four or five times in the head , court records said .	lavalette said that he shot and killed kouzoujian because he 'd been browbeating him and tapping him on the head with a hammer on june 28 , according to court documents . "	i killed a guy .	he had it coming to him .	he deserves to die , " the documents say lavalette allegedly told indiana law enforcement officers after he had been stopped july 1 on suspicion of drunken driving . "	i killed a man and i 'm happy about it , " the caledonian record ( http://bit.ly/1cxstvj ) quoted lavalette as saying .	vermont state police troopers said they found kouzoujian 's body after being told of lavalette 's comments by indiana authorities .
missouri gov. jay nixon says the state will play a long-term role in rebuilding housing in joplin after the deadly may tornado .	nixon was traveling to joplin on tuesday to announce what he describes as a " major initiative to address both the near-term and long-term housing needs . "	he says it will involve both federal and state resources to support home construction .	the may 22 tornado that hit joplin killed 159 people and destroyed thousands of homes while wiping out a large section of the city .
hawaii county prosecuting attorney mitch roth said his office dropped cases against the 14 people arrested and six people cited .	one case involving an arrested protester had previously been dismissed , he said .	roth said he made the decision out of respect for a judge 's ruling last week invalidating the state 's emergency rule that prohibited being within a mile of the mauna kea access road between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. , unless in a moving vehicle .	the rule also prohibited , at any time , sleeping bags , camping stoves , tents and propane burners on the mountain .	protesters against building the thirty meter telescope near the mountain 's summit had been holding around-the-clock vigil in an attempt to stop workers from resuming construction .	work has been stalled since april amid the protests .	the state 's land board passed the emergency rule during a heated meeting in july .	at the meeting , the state 's attorney general said a targeted rule -- even though camping is already prohibited on the mountain -- was needed to maintain safety .	a lawsuit argued the rule is illegal and prevented telescope opposition at the expense of native hawaiian cultural practices and public expression .	those opposed to the telescope cite how the mountain is sacred to many native hawaiians .	dropping the charges is the right thing to do , said david kauila kopper , the native hawaiian legal corporation attorney who filed the lawsuit . "	however , it does not make up for the unreasonable chilling effect and adverse impact it has had on native hawaiian cultural practitioners and the public , " he said in a statement .	kuuipo freitas , among those arrested for violating the rule last month , said the state should n't have enforced the rule while the lawsuit was pending . "	it 's ridiculous , " she said . "	it was still in the courts , and they went ahead and made arrests .	in the end , it did n't make them look good at all . "	she was in the middle of praying when officers from the state department of land and natural resources went up to the mountain to arrest her , six other women and a man in the early morning hours of sept. 9 .	dozens of protesters have been arrested during two attempts to resume construction .	roth 's office also moved to dismiss trespassing charges against 10 people . "	we still have other cases not applicable to the emergency rule that we are still moving forward with , " roth said .	follow jennifer sinco kelleher at http://www.twitter.com/jenhapa .
a southwestern idaho sheriff is making an extra effort to find the owner of a lost item .	the ada county sheriff 's office on tuesday posted on its facebook page a photo of a bag of methamphetamine saying the agency would like to meet the owner .	the agency says a motorcyclist traveling at 80 mph on amity road on friday morning lost the 3 ounces of meth when it fell off the back of the bike .	witnesses saw the item fall and retrieved it from the street .	they contacted authorities when they discovered the bag contained a white powder .	police say the witnesses did n't get a good look at the motorcyclist because he was going too fast .	the sheriff 's office says no one had claimed the item by tuesday afternoon .
louisiana state university professor isiah warner has been selected to receive the american chemical society 's award in analytical chemistry .	warner is boyd professor and vice chancellor of strategic initiatives at lsu .	his research focuses on analytical chemistry as well as development and application of chemical , instrumental and mathematical methods for analytical measurements .	he is a graduate of southern university and earned a doctorate from the university of washington .	warner has been on staff at lsu for 20 years .
the family of a hofstra university student accidentally killed by a police officer has listed a potential lawsuit among her assets , meaning it may be planning to sue nassau county and the county police .	the potential lawsuit was mentioned in a document filed in surrogate 's court in westchester county , where andrea rebello lived .	lawyers for her family have asked the nassau county attorney to preserve evidence from the shooting in uniondale .	rebello , a junior , was shot by a police officer during a may 17 home invasion off campus .	the intruder , a prison parolee , also was killed .	the surrogate 's court document says rebello 's assets include the " right of action " to sue nassau and its police officers for " wrongful death , civil rights and negligence . "	her only other asset listed is personal property worth less than $ 1,000 .	the document , dated may 31 , sought to have rebello 's mother , nella rebello , named administrator of the estate for the purpose of bringing the lawsuit .	permission was granted june 6 .	the document lists nella rebello and her husband , fernando rebello , as survivors who would inherit under the law .	andrea rebello , 21 , also had a twin sister , jessica rebello .	nassau county attorney john ciampoli said the county has not been notified of any lawsuit .	but he said attorneys for the rebello family have contacted him , requesting that radio communications , video and other documents from the shooting be preserved .	ciampoli said he has ordered county departments to retain all documents .	nassau county police inspector kenneth lack said the investigation into the shooting is ongoing and declined to comment on specifics of the case or any potential lawsuit .	calls to the family 's attorneys , byron lassin and david roth , were not immediately returned tuesday .	a call to the rebello family home in tarrytown was answered by a woman who said she had no comment .	nassau county police have not identified the officer who fired the fatal shot .	police said one officer found the intruder holding rebello in a headlock and threatening to kill her .	they said the officer fired when the intruder , 30-year-old dalton smith , pointed a gun at him .	smith was hit seven times , rebello once .	rebello 's godfather said police should have negotiated with smith before firing .	some friends at her wake said police should have waited for backup .	james carver , president of the nassau patrolman 's benevolent association , said smith was the only person responsible for rebello 's death .
rick layher has been working drug cases for decades and knows well how methamphetamine can tear a family apart . "	the parents that i 've talked to , they 're just pulling their hair out about it and asking ' what do we do ? '	no other drug has affected families like this , " said layher , who was confronted with the problem in his own home this year .	layher 's son , john r. layher , 27 , was arrested nov. 17 for felony possession of a controlled substance and misdemeanor possession of paraphernalia .	the sheriff turned his son in to idaho state police after he found a couple of meth pipes in the basement of his house , where john had been living .	investigators searched the house and seized the evidence . "	i truly feel that turning him in , i did the right thing for him , " layher said . "	one way or another , he 's going to get some help ... to me , this was his last chance . "	his son spent almost five days in jail . "	i was happy the longer my son sat in jail .	his brain was starting to get clear , " layher said .	john layher declined to be interviewed for this story .	he was due in court friday , but the preliminary hearing was rescheduled for january .	the elmore county prosecutor 's office turned the case over to the ada county prosecutor to avoid a conflict of interest .	sheriff layher , who attended his eldest daughter 's graduation from boise state university friday morning , said his family has been through a lot in the past month , but he 's feeling optimistic about his son 's future . "	i see light now ... i 've seen a big difference in his attitude , " said layher , who wants to see his son get treatment for drug addiction .	he believes his son began using drugs in his early 20s , but had been clean until about a year ago . "	you see them going good for a couple months , six months , even eight months , then all of the sudden , it 's like the rug 's taken out from under you , " layher said . "	he had gotten a pretty good job and had been clean for a long time , then he started using again . "	layher said meth addicts become completely absorbed in themselves , withdrawing from family and staying out all night . "	you ca n't really get into a rational conversation with them .	no matter what it is , they 're right , " layher said . "	when they 're on that stuff , they do n't care about their kids , their parents , their grandparents .	they do n't care about them things until their brain starts clearing up . "	layher said meth is no bigger problem in mountain home than it is anywhere else in the state , but it is a major problem . "	i would n't wish this on anybody , " said layher , thankful for the support he 's received from the community . "	a lot of people have sent cards and said they 're praying for us .	that does help .	i 'm thankful to god for that . "
a man has been sentenced to 48 years in prison for shooting into a crowded party at an anchorage warehouse , killing a teen and wounding two others .	oscar lajoie fired eight shots from outside the warehouse during the party in march 2009 .	one bullet killed 16-year-old colton crow , who was about 40 feet inside the door .	the anchorage daily news reports that two other defendants also were sentenced .	chad zurfluh got four years in prison for criminally negligent homicide and two counts of assault .	his sister , jaeleen , was sentenced to serve nine months in prison for hindering prosecution .	lajoie apologized to crow 's family and friends in the courtroom and insited he thought he was shooting at the building , not into it .
after the fall of president hosni mubarak , a group of young activists quickly moved to bring the can-do spirit of egypt 's revolution down to the level of their neighborhood .	they began installing electricity poles in mit oqba 's dim streets .	they got gas pipes extended to the area .	they did what local officials had long promised but never done , with the aim of showing 300,000 low-income residents the benefits of an uprising meant to end the corruption and stagnation under mubarak .	then the activists ' parents started getting intimidating warnings : your children are going to get beaten up by thugs .	an official who helped them get papers signed for extending the gas pipes was suddenly transfered to another post .	the activists had run into a collision course with powerful local members of the former ruling party .	it was a lesson about the new egypt : the old regime is still in place and fighting change . "	the regime is not just mubarak and his ministers .	there are thousands still benefitting , " said mohammed magdy , one of the activists in mit oqba .	mubarak was ousted five months ago , along with top figures from his nearly 30-year regime .	but the military generals who now rule have been slow in ?	or have outright resisted ?	dismantling the grip that members of his former ruling party hold on every level of the state , from senior government positions down to local administrations .	in the meantime , public anger that real change has not come is growing explosive .	the experience in mit oqba illustrates the conflict between old and new being waged street by street and neighborhood by neighborhood .	under mubarak 's regime , more than 1,700 local councils nationwide , with over 50,000 members , were elected in theory to represent their neighborhoods .	in practice , they were a cog in the patronage and corruption machine of mubarak 's national democratic party .	election rigging ensured nearly all councilmembers belonged to the party .	often they would push projects that lined their own pockets or those of friends .	for example , a street would get a new sidewalk if a firm close to the council or ruling party profited .	councilmembers steered services to residents willing to do them a favor later .	the system helped ensure the regime 's hold .	come election time , officials used their patronage to drum out voters for party candidates or to hire thugs to beat up opponents .	late last month , a court ordered all local councils dissolved , potentially a significant step toward reform .	but former members retain their connections , backed with cash , giving them a strong tool for regaining seats when new municipal elections are held . "	they have lots of money going around to people .	they have ties with big families in the area , " said heba ghanem , an activist working with mit oqba 's popular committee . "	some who want to run for parliament are already slaughtering cows and distributing ( the meat ) in the neighborhood " ?	a common way to curry votes .	the same fear holds for national politics , where many one-time officials in mubarak 's party are gearing up to run for election in september .	the activist neighborhood groups , known as popular committees , aim to break not just corruption but also the apathy of egyptians who have given up trying to make things better .	they were born from impromptu neighborhood watch groups that defended homes in a wave of looting the anti-mubarak uprising .	the watch groups were widely popular as an example of egyptians working together on their own initiative , and they won support from the young people who had fueled the anti-mubarak revolt .	there are now nearly 50 " popular committees " nationwide , each with volunteers working in their home neighborhoods .	their self-imposed mandate : make things better and get things done .	many of them have taken the additional title of " in defense of the revolution . "	that can mean anything ?	fixing infrastructure and providing literacy classes , working with residents on rooftop gardens or on better water usage , or monitoring officials to keep them accountable .	some conduct " name and shame " campaigns to expose those who take bribes or embezzle ?	whether policemen or bakers who sell government-subsidized wheat on the black market .	they catch perpetrators on mobile phone cameras and publicize the footage .	in alexandria , egypt 's second largest city , a gas company needed to repair a damaged valve .	but it wanted protection , because its team had to work at night .	with a general police pullback from the streets , the popular committee volunteered to provide security instead .	the gas company feared offending police by cooperating with the activists , so the committee had its patrol just pass by the work site to make it look coincidental .	the company made the repair .	mit oqba , magdy 's home district in cairo , provided a unique challenge and opportunity .	ruling party networks were strong in the crowded district , which was used to provide manpower for pro-mubarak rallies during the uprising .	soon after mubarak 's fall , the 24-year-old magdy and his committee drew up a plan to tackle 12 prominent problems in the long neglected neighborhood .	they organized installation of light poles for a dozen streets .	drug dealing was rampant , so they 're pressing officials for more police .	the district badly needed a low-fee government medical clinic .	one was underway , but workers ?	paid by the day ?	were delaying finishing it .	so a committee member is camping out at the construction site , doing everything from badgering them to bringing them daily tea to get it done .	local officials promised two decades ago to extend natural gas pipelines to mit oqba homes .	it never happened .	so the committee followed the paper trail and got a few approvals signed .	now the main pipeline has been laid , and the committee is helping residents register for connections to their homes .	with the successes , the harassment began , according to the activists .	local council supporters hacked into the committee 's facebook group and sent emails to its members that caused fights among them , magdy said .	they transferred the official who cooperated with magdy to sign papers .	they pressured a principal into barring the committee 's literacy class from his school .	to scare the volunteers ' families , they spread word that armed thugs were waiting to attack them , magdy said .	when that did n't work , the local council tried to take credit .	in its newsletter , it proclaimed that it " promised and delivered " on the gas lines .	former ruling party members posed in photos by the new streetlights .	magdy 's group countered with its own newsletter , " the people want , " reporting on their activities and on former regime members trying to buy off loyalties .	they also praised officials who helped them bring services .	in a last-ditch attempt , a local bigwig who once sat in parliament for the ruling party met with volunteers .	he told them bluntly they would fail . "	who lied to you and told you this party is dead and buried ? "	he shouted , according to magdy . "	we are still here and we will win again , with your help . "	zaghloul rashad , a member of mit oqba 's local district council , denied that the council had harassed the young activists , and called them " arrogant " young meddlers .	he said the influence of the activists was limited to a few steets .	he also denied the activists were responsible for the new gas pipeline , saying it had been approved earlier . "	does the popular committee have a magic wand to say ' extend gas pipelines ' and it happens ? "	asked rashad , who plans to run for election again and expressed confidence he would win .	at the same time , rashad complained that the activists can in fact march into a local administrator 's office and press him into action , and he 'll comply for fear of seeming anti-revolutionary . "	they could n't even enter his office before , " he said . "	it is chaos ! "	the activists are unfazed .	in a snub to mit oqba 's local council , magdy 's group hung a banner on al-gharib street , where several councilmembers own homes .	one side proclaims " goals we achieved " and the other " goals we want to achieve . "	so far , they 've checked off nearly half the original list of 12 . "	these kids are good .	they 're cleaning up the streets , " said howeida mohammed , a 40-year-old woman attending one of the committee 's literacy classes this week . "	i do n't want anything to do with the local council . "	the popular committees may not survive because of the sheer strength of the old system mubarak set up , said alia mossallam , a doctorate student documenting the popular committees and helping them network .	but they 'll be a breeding ground for a new generation of politicians , experienced in actually serving a community . "	we have never had goverance from below , " she said . "	( the experience ) may die down ... but everything they have learned will stick with them . "
state officials in new jersey are moving forward with plans to buy flood-prone properties in the wake of superstorm sandy .	officials met with 129 sayreville home and property owners who are approved for buyouts .	environmental protection department spokesman larry ragonese told the home news tribune of east brunswick ( http://mycj.co/11ydnkl ) the people own contiguous properties and clusters of homes that will allow the state to create flood plains .	ragonese says the state is hoping to buy the first homes by the end of summer .	fema will provide 75 percent of the funding and the state will pay 25 percent .	the state is only working with willing sellers and owners can reject the offer without losing their homes .	ragonese says about 72 properties in south river are next .
dejujuan nelson lost a buck fixing video games before he realized he could make one ?	or several .	it was about two years ago , when he was 16 , when a friend approached him with a broken playstation 2 system .	knowing dejujuan was good at that sort of thing ?	he had been the grand blanc pick for genesee intermediate school district 's " best of the best " students for career and technical education ?	he was the obvious choice . "	at that point in time i was n't really trying to look for a profit or anything .	i did n't have the idea of actually having a business , " dejujuan said .	he found the part that was faulty and bought a new one for $ 10.97 . "	i told him , ' hey , it 's going to cost about ten dollars or so , ' and he gave me ten bucks .	... i did n't calculate any profit , it was just like a friend to friend sort of thing , " he said .	being 97 cents in the red , he got the idea . "	after that i got thinking .	i thought , hey , this could become a pretty profitable business , " he said .	now dejujuan fixes all kinds of gaming systems , and sells them along with games .	since he was only 17 when he started the business , he had to find an adult to help him , and recruited his uncle .	his uncle is technically the owner , but since the business began when he was 17 , nelson has retained the title of founder , chief operations officer and chief executive officer .	ceo or not , nelson still had to worry about getting his homework done , and said that even though the business took up a lot of time , he just had to treat it like a part-time job .	but it was n't the average teenager 's part-time job .	in order to get the business going , nelson needed to advertise with fliers around town , network and do market research .	part of that market research was right at school , surveying students with what they would want from a company like his .	having plenty of competition in the video game repair market , nelson said what his business offers is local convenience because customers do n't always want to send their gaming system through the mail to the manufacturer and wait for it to return . "	people were actually starting to wait six or seven weeks to get their system back .	i mean , that 's a pretty long time for gamers , " he said with a laugh . "	gamers , " he explains , do n't want to be separated from their favorite pastime for too long .	nelson does n't hesitate when asked how he learned to fix gaming systems . "	i honestly do not know , " he said .	most of it , he says , came from simple tinkering and learning from online tutorials for fun .	nelson has also made friends with people from other similar businesses who have given him advice and information along the way .	though he 's enjoyed getting his business up and running , nelson said he wants to pursue a career in law enforcement . "	for a really long time i 've wanted to be something that has to do with law enforcement .	... recently i just changed my career focus , and i 'm sort of leaning toward the u.s. marshals , " he said .	he said he wants to stick with the business as long as he can , but said once he graduates from ferris state university , where he 's been accepted for the fall , he 'll have to find someone else to run it for him .	business is nice , but he said it 's not where his heart is . "	i like to take charge .	i really like to help people .	one thing that really gets me is when i see someone that actually needs help and there 's nobody to provide it , " he said .
a judge on tuesday sentenced a 20-year-old maintenance man to life without parole in the killing of a 7-year-old canton girl .	ryan brunn pleaded guilty to the dec. 2 killing of jorelys rivera .	brunn told the judge he found rivera 's roller skate and used it to lure her into a vacant apartment .	brunn was indicted last week .	the charges against him include murder , aggravated assault , aggravated battery , cruelty to children in the first degree , aggravated child molestation , false imprisonment , enticing a child for indecent purposes , sexual exploitation of children , making false statements and abandonment of a dead body .	brunn said started sexually abusing her in the vacant apartment .	he said later bound her arms in the bathtub and then taped her face before cutting her with a razor he uses to cut carpet .	when she did n't die immediately , he said he hit her about five times before stuffing her body in a garbage bag and throwing it into a trash compactor .	authorities found the child 's body in a trash bin at the apartment complex three days after her mother reported her missing in early december .	police believe brunn snatched rivera as she walked from the apartment complex 's playground to her apartment to get sodas for her friends and took her to a vacant apartment , where authorities say he killed her .	according to the indictment , brunn bound rivera 's hands with plastic ties and taped a rag into her mouth before he beat her with a " hammer-like object , " cut her throat and stabbed her in the chest .	authorities say brunn also molested the girl .	brunn had pornographic material of a young female child in his possession , according to the indictment .	brunn was being held without bond at the cherokee county jail .	his family has said he is innocent .	brunn has no known criminal past and he cleared criminal checks by the company that runs the apartment complex where he had been working about a month .	authorities say brunn had keys to the apartment and the trash compactor bin where rivera 's body was left .
democratic u.s. sen. kirsten gillibrand ( kehr ' - sten jil ' - uh-brand ) has been elected in new york to the seat she was appointed to last year to replace hillary rodham clinton .	with about two-thirds of the vote tallied , gillibrand had 62 percent of the vote to 35 percent for republican joe dioguardi ( dee-oh-gwahr ' - dee ) .	the special-election victory gives gillibrand the seat until 2012 , which would have been the end of clinton 's term if she had n't resigned to become u.s. secretary of state .	gillibrand was appointed by democratic gov. david paterson in january 2009 .	the win represents a milestone in gillibrand 's brief senate career , in which she initially was labeled by critics as too inexperienced and conservative .	dioguardi is a certified public accountant who represented westchester county in the house in the 1980s .	he 's the father of former " american idol " judge kara dioguardi .
a general strike disrupted services across greece and riots erupted once more outside parliament tuesday as demonstrators protested more taxes and spending cuts essential for the country to receive critical bailout funds that will prevent a potentially disastrous default .	inside parliament , lawmakers debated new austerity measures which must be passed wednesday and thursday if greece 's international creditors are to release the next euro12 billion batch of the country 's euro110 billion bailout ?	and prevent a default that could drag down european banks and shake the european and world economy .	but the measures , which include spending cuts and tax hikes on even those on minimum wages , have caused widespread outrage .	unions embarked on a two-day general strike tuesday , halting nearly all public transport , forcing airlines to reschedule or cancel dozens of flights and bringing public services to a standstill .	a peaceful protest by about 20,000 people quickly degenerated into violence , with riot police firing volleys of tear gas and stun grenades to keep back hooded youths pelting them with thousands of chunks of ripped up paving stones and marble chipped from building facades and steps .	police said 37 policemen were injured during tuesday 's riots , while 14 protesters were arrested .	emergency services said nine protesters were injured .	greece is no stranger to violent demonstrations or strikes , and they are not expected to derail the parliamentary votes ?	but they have added to an atmosphere of deep dissatisfaction .	even some deputies within prime minister george papandreou 's governing socialists have voiced dissatisfaction with the measures , with two of them indicating they might not vote in favor .	however , the socialists hold a five-seat majority in the 300-member parliament , and the bills should muster the simple majority of 151 votes to pass .	european officials have also been pressuring greece 's the main conservative opposition party to back the austerity bill , but so far their urgings have failed to convince conservative party leader antonis samaras . "	i trust that the greek political leaders are fully aware of the responsibility that lies on their shoulders to avoid default , " european monetary affairs commissioner olli rehn said .	in addition to seeking the next batch of bailout funds , greece looks like it will need another financial rescue .	papandreou has said a second bailout would be roughly the same size as the first and hopefully on better terms .	but the austerity imposed in order to get the funds have led to frequent strikes and demonstrations .	in tuesday 's violence , rioters set fire to giant parasols at an outdoor cafe , using some to form barricades , and smashed windows of a mcdonald 's outlet and other snack shops .	snack vendors scattered , leaving half-grilled sausages lying in the street among broken glass and smashed flower pots .	staff at upscale hotels handed out surgical masks to tourists and helped them with rolling luggage past the rioting , over ground strewn with rubble .	youths set fire to a satellite truck parked near parliament , which rolled downhill into a kiosk whose freezer exploded .	hooded youths ducked behind the burning truck to help themselves to ice-cream cones . "	the situation that the workers are going through is tragic and we are near poverty levels , " said spyros linardopoulos , a protester with the pame union blockading the port of piraeus earlier in the day . "	the government has declared war and to this war we will answer back with war . "	an ongoing strike by electricity company workers kept up rolling blackouts across greece .	not far from the violent protest , cafes and ice cream vendors popular with tourists used portable generators to keep the power on .	many greeks insist they should not be forced to pay for a crisis they believe politicians are responsible for . "	we do n't owe any money , it 's the others who stole it , " said 69-year-old demonstrator antonis vrahas . "	we 're resisting for a better society for the sake of our children and grandchildren . "	even with the new austerity measures and a second bailout , many investors still think greece is heading for some sort of default because its overall euro340 billion debt burden is too great .
the reward is now up to $ 40,000 for a minneapolis man accused of killing his ex-boyfriend at an arden hills gas station a month ago .	the ramsey county sheriff 's office on wednesday announced the increased reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of 44-year-old lyle " ty " hoffman .	the reward previously had been up to $ 25,000 .	hoffman is wanted in the aug. 11 fatal shooting of his former boyfriend and business partner , boston scientific executive kelly phillips .	hoffman is also suspected of robbing a tcf bank in blaine on aug. 30 .	authorities say the handgun used in the shooting and the bank robbery has not been recovered .
secretary of state hillary rodham clinton is shepherding mideast talks this week that she says may be the last chance for peace between israelis and palestinians .	clinton and former sen. george mitchell , president barack obama 's special envoy to the region , planned to be in the red sea resort of sharm el-sheik , egypt , for talks tuesday with israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and palestinian president mahmoud abbas .	they 're scheduled to shift to jerusalem for a second day of talks wednesday , and it 's likely that obama will resume negotiations with abbas and netanyahu in new york the following week on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly .	the most immediate obstacle for negotiators is a palestinian demand that israel extend a curb on new housing construction in the west bank , a constraint that israel says will expire sept. 26 .	the palestinians have insisted that without an extension , the peace talks will go nowhere .	raising the pressure , obama said friday that he has urged netanyahu to extend the partial moratorium as long as talks are making progress .	however , netanyahu said sunday that the currect restrictions would indeed be lifted ?	he rejected a total freeze on construction ?	but he added that there would be some limits .	obama also said he 's told abbas that if he shows he 's serious about negotiating , it will give political maneuver room for netanyahu on the settlement issue .	abbas knows " the window for creating a palestinian state is closing , " obama said .	clinton 's task , obama said , is to get the israeli and palestinian leaders to " start thinking about how can they help the other succeed , as opposed to how do they figure out a way for the other to fail . "	previewing the upcoming talks , clinton said " there is a certain momentum " after an initial round in washington on sept. 2. , which marked the first direct israeli-palestinian talks in nearly two years .	in an appearance this past week at the council on foreign relations , clinton was asked why those who see little chance of reaching a settlement in the one-year deadline obama has set are wrong . "	i think they 're wrong because i think that both sides and both leaders recognize that there may not ever be another chance , " she replied .	the " last chance " notion is based in part on the knowledge that abbas is living on borrowed time , in a political sense .	his electoral mandate expired in 2009 and he fears a hamas takeover of the west bank , which is supposed to make up the bulk of an independent palestinian state .	time is a motivating factor for the israelis , too .	some israelis believe the longer that israel occupies the west bank and its growing arab population , the more israel 's future as a jewish state is imperiled .	creating a sovereign palestine would get israel out of the occupation business .	more broadly , the status quo is a drag on u.s. interests .	the wars and grievances that flowed from israel 's 1948 founding as a jewish state have divided the middle east , and u.s. officials have argued that the conflict begets hatred and suspicion of the u.s. as israel 's principal ally .	obama wants a deal within a year ; israelis are deeply skeptical after decades of failed efforts .	netanyahu acknowledges the widespread doubts . "	there are many obstacles , many skeptics , and many reasons for skepticism , " he said in a jewish new year address last tuesday .	he called the resumed negotiations " an important step in an attempt " to make peace , but added that it " is an attempt because there is no certainty of success . "	one concern of all the parties to the talks is hamas , the militant islamist movement that refuses to negotiate and opposes israel 's very existence .	hamas controls the gaza strip , which is supposed to be part of a negotiated palestinian state along with most of the west bank .	michele dunne , a mideast expert at the carnegie endowment for international peace , said it appears the talks will go nowhere until the two sides , with clinton 's help , can find a compromise solution to the settlements issue . "	that 's probably going to have to be the first item on the agenda , " she said in a telephone interview . "	the first priority is to make sure that the talks do n't collapse at the end of september . "	she gives the current format for negotiations about six months before the u.s. will have to either give up or put forth its own peace plan and try to rally support for it from moderate arab states .
authorities have identified a driver who died of gunshot wounds before crashing the vehicle into a phoenix home .	phoenix police say the man was 36-year-old manuel ortega-callejas .	they say nobody else was in the car , which traveled through the home 's garage and into a bedroom late tuesday night .	two people inside the home at the time escaped injury .	police say there are n't any known witnesses to the shooting except that one person reported hearing shots fired in the area .	paramedics and police officers responding to the crash say they found ortega-callejas dead of gunshot wounds .
the parents of a central california girl who died of heat stroke last year while trapped in the family car have sued the car maker bmw as well as their daughter 's school district .	the lawsuit , filed tuesday in madera county superior court , says 14-year-old graciela martinez became trapped in a 1997 bmw 328i last september and died when the temperature inside reached triple digits .	according to the suit , graciela 's brother parked the car near the school and locked graciela inside so she could catch a nap before class .	but the car 's double-locking mechanism prevented her from getting out , and the car horn would not work without the keys in the ignition .	the suit says bmw knew of the locking mechanism 's dangers and blames the school district for failing to notify graciela 's parents that she was n't in class .
the $ 1,000 pill for a liver-wasting viral infection that made headlines last year is no longer the favorite of patients and doctors .	the new leading pill for hepatitis c is more expensive , and the number of patients seeking a cure has surged .	sovaldi , last year 's wonder drug , has been pushed aside by a successor called harvoni , made by the same company .	the sticker price for harvoni is $ 1,350 a pill .	the fast-paced changes in hepatitis c treatment are being watched closely amid fears that breakthrough drugs could reignite the rise of u.s. health care costs .	other medications that could turn into cost drivers include a new treatment for melanoma and a cholesterol-lowering drug awaiting approval .	more hepatitis c drugs are also headed to market .	hepatitis c affects some 3 million people in the u.s. and claims more lives here than aids .	with the new drugs , patients finally have a choice among highly effective cures with minimal side effects .	many patients could n't tolerate the side effects of previous treatments .	but newfound choice does n't seem to have led to widespread price competition . "	as a society we need a way of determining what is a reasonable price at the time of introduction of a new drug , " said stephen schondelmeyer , a university of minnesota professor who specializes in pharmaceutical economics .	the number of prescriptions filled for hepatitis c drugs has more than doubled , from an average of 20,600 a month during the first three months of last year to a monthly average of 48,000 for the same period this year , according to ims health , which collects data on pharmacy prescriptions and sales .	harvoni 's monthly sales crossing the $ 1-billion mark by january .
five priests were deemed unsuitable for ministry because of substantiated allegations of sexual abuse or other inappropriate conduct , philadelphia 's roman catholic archbishop said friday .	three other priests would return to the ministry and another died during the investigation , charles chaput said .	he said 17 other cases were investigated , but the findings were not being immediately announced . "	the process of reviewing these cases was designed to ensure that the decisions announced today reflect our commitment to protect children , assist victims , restore the integrity of the priesthood and provide evidence to the broader community that they can have confidence in these outcomes , " the archbishop said .	he also offered his " heartfelt apology " to all victims of clergy abuse , too .	the announcements come during the criminal trial of monsigner william j. lynn , a former top aide at the archdiocese .	he is charged with child endangerment for his handling of abuse complaints from 1992 to 2004 , mostly under the late cardinal anthony bevilacqua .	the february 2011 grand jury report that led to lynn 's case also alleged that dozens of accused priests were still active in philadelphia , despite a zero-tolerance policy among u.s. bishops .	the accusations ranged from sexual abuse to inappropriate boundary issues .	a 2005 grand jury report had blasted the church for ignoring or dismissing sexual-abuse complaints made against 63 priests in the archdiocese over many decades .	the 2011 report said the archdiocese was continuing to downplay complaints or focus on minor discrepancies to find them not credible .	the archdiocese responded by suspending the priests and hiring a former child sex-crimes prosecutor , gina maisto smith , to re-examine complaints involving active priests .	a year ago , the criticism came from within when the head of the archdiocese 's lay panel on priest sex-abuse blasted then-cardinal justin rigali 's response to the pedophilia crisis , saying he and his bishops " failed miserably at being open and transparent . "
the federal government 's new plan for oil shale development on public lands would keep activity off thousands of acres of environmentally sensitive areas , with new leases initially being issued strictly for research on how to commercially produce oil from oil shale in utah , wyoming and colorado .	the george w. bush administration had made almost 2 million acres available for potential oil shale development and 431,000 acres for tar sands development , but federal officials took a new look after conservation groups filed a lawsuit in 2009 alleging the government had n't fully reviewed possible environmental impacts .	a new draft environmental impact statement released friday says the preferred plan now is to make 35,308 acres in colorado , 252,181 acres in utah , and 174,476 acres in wyoming available for oil shale research .	also , 91,045 acres in eastern utah would be available for activities related to tar sands .	together , the total is around a half million acres .	areas with wilderness characteristics , core sage grouse habitat , areas of critical environmental concern , and the adobe town area in wyoming are among those that would be off limits .	the public has until may 4 to comment on the proposal .	the bureau of land management estimates the green river formation in colorado , utah and wyoming has 1.2 to 1.8 trillion barrels of oil resources , but not all may be recoverable .	getting petroleum-like substances out of oil shale , which is first mined , is tougher than pumping oil out of traditional wells , and companies have n't found an economic way to do it in the u.s. oil shale contains kerogen , which must be subjected to temperatures of more than 750 degrees before it can produce oil .	studies have indicated up to about 500 gallons of water may be needed to produce one barrel of oil from it , which could be an issue in the dry west , the government accountability office has said .	following recommendations from the gao , the u.s. geological survey is analyzing baseline water conditions so it can better understand how commercial-scale oil shale development could affect groundwater and surface water systems .	the blm in 2007 issued six leases of federal land in colorado and utah for research on how to make oil shale commercially viable .	three more applications are pending and would n't be affected by the plan announced friday .	president barack obama 's administration says its development proposal continues to encourage research . "	if oil shale is to be viable on a commercial scale , we must take a common-sense approach that encourages research and development first , " blm director bob abbey said in a written statement .	tar sands contain bitumen , which can be refined into oil .	canada has a commercial tar sands industry , but its oil sands and processing requirements differ from those in utah .	energy companies had said they needed consistent regulations and pushed for the government to leave the bush administration 's plan alone . "	within a week of encouraging an ' all of the above ' energy strategy , the administration continues to introduce actions that delay and restrict development , " american petroleum institute spokesman reid porter said in a written statement . "	there has to be certainty , and the blm draft plan is not conducive to an operating environment that encourages investment . "	shell oil co. , which already has some research and development leases , said it 's uncertain whether it could commit to any significant investments in such big projects " without regulatory certainty or a clear path forward . "	however , bill midcap of the rocky mountain farmers union said research is still needed on how much water will be needed to turn oil shale into oil . "	we already face a water shortage in the west that threatens farmers and ranchers , " he said .	vernon lovejoy , a former blm state director in wyoming , said he also wants to know the potential effects on hunting , fishing and recreation , which hold up economies in rural and mountain towns in the west . "	i do believe oil shale can be developed in many places , as long as we realize the potential impacts before we enter into leases , " lovejoy said .	earlier in the week , a house committee approved a bill from rep. doug lamborn , r-colo. , that would require the interior department to offer far more land and leases for oil shale research and commercial production .	it would allow lease fees and royalties to be reduced to encourage development .	sen. mark udall , d-colo. , applauded the blm 's move , saying the demands that development would place on local communities and water still need to be fully understood . "	while i have long felt there is potential for oil shale development , it is critical that a number of unanswered questions be resolved before commercial-scale leasing takes place , " he said in a written statement .
a lakewood couple is making a jump into politics with a ballot question asking voters to permanently put colorado on mountain daylight time .	some ballot initiatives are big operations with paid signature gatherers .	this one so far includes only 35-year-old sean johnson and his wife , teri .	mountain daylight time runs from the second sunday in march to the first sunday in november , when clocks are moved back an hour for mountain standard time .	johnson says staying on daylight time year-round would help worker productivity and keep an extra hour of sunlight in the evening during the winter .	johnson , who works as a personal trainer , hopes family , friends , and volunteers interested in the proposal will help gather the more than 86,100 signatures needed to put the question on the november 2016 ballot .
a federal appeals court on friday denied a request by a north texas water district to reconsider a lawsuit that seeks access to water flowing into the red river from southeastern oklahoma for use in the fort worth and arlington areas .	the 10th u.s. circuit court of appeals issued a one-page order denying the tarrant regional water district 's petition for a rehearing .	the appeals court had last month affirmed a lower court decision to dismiss the 2007 lawsuit , which alleged that oklahoma statutes governing surface and stream water rights within its borders posed burdens to interstate commerce .	the district had wanted to purchase about 150 billion gallons from oklahoma tributaries of the red river , which runs along the border between oklahoma and texas .	water district officials have said they are unable to draw water directly from the river because it is contaminated with chlorides from upstream salt deposits .	the petition by the district , which serves 1.7 million in 11 rapidly growing counties in north texas , warned that the region " will have insufficient water by 2030 " unless the district obtains additional supplies .	the district 's oklahoma city attorney referred calls for comment to the organization .	a district spokesman did n't immediately return a call or an email seeking comment late friday .	oklahoma attorney general scott pruitt said the state is pleased with the court 's decision . "	the ruling underscores that the people of oklahoma should not be mandated through litigation to shape water policy , " pruitt said in a statement . "	water is an important resource that is vital to oklahomans , and my office will continue to defend our state 's interests . "	the lawsuit was filed after the oklahoma legislature approved a bill to extend a moratorium on out-of-state water sales in 2006 .	in affirming the lower court decision , the appeals court ruled the red river compact insulates oklahoma water statutes from interstate commerce challenges involving water that is subject to the compact .	the red river compact controls the use of water in the basin that includes oklahoma , texas , arkansas and louisiana .	district general manager jim oliver has said the court 's interpretation of the red river compact negates the district 's ability to secure a reliable future water supply and prevents the group from exercising its legal rights under the compact to access water allocated to texas .	water district officials have said they want only 7 percent of southeastern oklahoma water that is bound for the red river and that no oklahoma water reservoir would be affected .	more than four times the amount of water used by the entire state flows unused into the red river each year , district officials have argued .
contractors have begun testing drinking-water wells near grissom air reserve base for signs of chemical pollution found earlier this year at two sites on the northern indiana base .	crews with the air force civil engineer center took water samples wednesday from four wells to test them for perfluorinated compounds , or pfcs , a chemical found in fire-suppressing foam used by firefighters since the 1970s .	the wells being tested are the closest to areas once used to train air force firefighters near grissom 's runway to battle petroleum-driven aircraft fires at the former active base about 50 miles north of indianapolis .	the site near the city of peru was realigned as a reserve base in 1994 , but remains the home of the air force reserves ' 434th air refueling wing , which flies kc-135 stratotankers .	col. doug schwartz , the 434th air refueling wing 's commander , said the fire-suppressing foam is no longer used in training , and the air force is systematically removing it from the site .	the water testing is being expedited and the results will be released when they become available , schwartz said . "	whatever the result , we are going to let people know what 's going on , " he said . "	we owe that to our neighbors . "	in addition to the well testing , crews will also test incoming and outgoing water from a nearby water treatment plant , the kokomo tribune reported ( http://bit.ly/1jhguwo ) .	the chemical contamination was detected on the base earlier this year about 20 feet underground , although nearby drinking-water wells run at least 150 feet below the surface .	officials said the amount of soil , clay and rock between the surface contamination and the wells is significant , but the base is being aggressive in its approach to learning about and mitigating any risk that may exist . "	this is an emerging science , " said lisa krawczyk , 434th base civil engineer squadron environmental engineer . "	researchers are trying to grasp the scope and effect on human exposure of pfcs , and , when necessary , take action to protect people and the environment . "
college grants for needy kentucky students have run out , leaving more than 16,000 without funding .	the kentucky education assistance authority has been notifying 16,599 applicants the college access program money is used up .	the courtier-journal of louisville reported applicants are being told only those whose paperwork arrived by march 7 will be funded , although the deadline for applications was march 15 .	the maximum award for the 2010-2011 academic year is $ 1,900 .	at the university of louisville , student financial aid executive director pat arauz said as many as 1,400 students could be affected there .
colombia 's police director says six police officers have been killed and a seventh wounded in ambush in a rural southwestern area where leftist rebels operate .	gen. jose roberto leon tells the associated press that the officers were riding on four motorcycles when they were attacked with gunfire monday afternoon on a rural stretch of highway in the cauca state town of padilla .	he said a front of the revolutionary armed forces of colombia , or farc , operates in the area .	if the farc is responsible , the deaths would bring to 15 the number of security force members killed since the government and rebels formally opened peace talks in norway on oct. 18 .	the talks to end a nearly five-decade-old conflict are set to begin in earnest in cuba on nov. 15 .
u.s. sen. rand paul says the deadly 2012 attacks on americans in benghazi , libya , should preclude former secretary of state hillary rodham clinton from ever being considered as president .	the reno gazette-journal reports ( http://on.rgj.com/1ivztql ) the kentucky republican told a crowd of supporters in reno on saturday that clinton got cables to protect the consulate in benghazi but did " nothing . "	both paul and clinton are considering bids for the white house in 2016 .	the attacks killed u.s. ambassador christopher stevens and three other americans .	multiple independent , bipartisan and gop-led inquiries have faulted the state department for inadequate security in benghazi , leading to four demotions .	but a house intelligence committee report in november found no wrongdoing by obama administration appointees .	paul made a similar campaign-style stop in las vegas on friday .
a carlsbad woman who burned down her own house after claiming to hear noises in the attic will serve prison time .	the carlsbad current-argus reported ( http://bit.ly/1kghnla ) friday that valerie hernandez was sentenced in district court after pleading no contest to a negligent arson charge .	the judge gave hernandez 225 days credit , resulting in a 10-month sentence .	according to police , a then-33-year-old hernandez was arrested in october 2012 for allegedly setting fire to a mattress in her home .	hernandez told police she believed someone was living in the attic and had bugged the house to listen to her conversations .	no one was hurt in the blaze .	investigators say her allegation that an unknown man was in her attic proved unfounded .
police charged a 20-year-old woman with aggravated murder on wednesday in the death of a 3-year-old son whose body had been bagged and thrown in the trash .	deputy police chief edward tomba said additional charges were likely when a cuyahoga county grand jury takes up the case against camilia terry , 20 , in the death of her middle son , emilliano .	tomba said investigators were reviewing the woman 's online song and comment postings , which could provide clues to a possible motive .	the online postings reflect a life of sexual and physical abuse , loneliness and a dream that someone she knew was going to die .	county medical examiner thomas gilson joined tomba at a news conference and said the cause of death had n't been determined yet .	in addition , gilson said his office was awaiting a dna sample from the mother to make a positive identification of the partially decomposed body .	camilia terry had reported the child missing from a park sunday .	she came under suspicion monday when her version changed on how the boy disappeared .	police have searched terry 's apartment looking for clues as to where the child was killed but it was n't clear if the boy was killed there , tomba said . "	there 's no glaring indication that this is where this alleged crime took place , " he said .	nothing has turned up in the investigation indicating anyone else was involved in killing the boy , the deputy chief said .	detectives have been questioning the woman 's family and neighbors to determine when the boy was last seen and help set a time of death .	tomba said that , at this point , detectives think he was last seen by someone outside his apartment on thanksgiving eve .	terry is expected to be arraigned thursday .	prosecutors will then present the case to a grand jury .	the suspect 's two other sons , one 5 years old and the other 5 months old , are in county custody .	the dead boy is the third generation of his family involved in county social services , cuyahoga county department of children and family services spokeswoman mary louise madigan said .	the family history with the agency extends back to 2000 , and a neglect complaint against terry 's mother , the dead boy 's grandmother .	over the years there were more neglect complaints , some unsubstantiated , and later similar neglect complaints against terry over the handling of her children , madigan said .
the alleghany highlands area is launching an effort to attract more visitors .	those who know something about the area are familiar with covington 's paper mill and douthat state park .	but people who do n't will be able to get more information from a new tourism website that aims to steer visitors to the region 's outdoor recreational activities , its arts and crafts center , and locally owned restaurants .	the alleghany highlands chamber of commerce and tourism launched the website on june 1 as part of a larger effort to market the area in hopes of bringing more revenue to its localities .	the roanoke times reports that to help pay for the campaign , the nonprofit alleghany foundation awarded a $ 325,000 to the chamber , which leveraged it to acquire a $ 25,000 virginia tourism corp. grant .
the hottest political question this year for many colorado voters is n't about candidates but rather medical marijuana .	more than 40 colorado jurisdictions are considering local rules on medical marijuana .	some voters will decide whether to ban marijuana dispensaries or commercial pot-growing operations .	others will be asked whether to set new tax rates for medical pot .	the marijuana questions have fired up debates in towns large and small about the role of medical marijuana in colorado .
shares of discover financial services rose wednesday after the credit card company posted a first-quarter profit that bested wall street 's expectations .	the company 's increase to its quarterly dividend and hints of a possible share repurchase this year also helped boost shares .	the stock of the riverwoods , ill.-based company added $ 1 , or 4.5 percent , to $ 23.25 afternoon trading .	on tuesday , the company reported net income of $ 459 million , or 84 cents a share , for the three months ended feb. 28 .	the result reversed a year-ago loss and was helped by improved customer payment habits and a small gain in sales volume .	on average , analysts polled by factset expected a profit of 60 cents per share .	several analysts on wednesday affirmed their " outperform " ratings on the stock and raised their full-year outlooks to account for the first-quarter results . "	dfs reported a good quarter .	we like the dfs story as it continues to offer an attractive risk-adjusted return , " said sanjay sakhrani , a keefe , bruyette & woods analyst .
@ ksdk-tv , st. louis bonne terre , mo. - four people have been shot , all of them fatally , at a housing complex here .	st. francois county coroner jim copeland said all of the four dead are adults .	he did not know the relationship of the shooter to the victims .	the gunman shot three people to death and then fatally shot himself , copeland said .	school superintendent yancy poorman , whose nearby high school briefly went into lockdown , said the sheriff 's department told him that the shootings were domestic in nature .	bonne terre , mo. , is about 60 miles southwest of st. louis .	the owner of the housing complex , which consists of a dozen duplexes , said she did not know many of the tenants well and that she did not know who had died .
the head of the indiana national guard is opposing a proposal to replace the fighter jets based in fort wayne with larger plane used to transport troops and cargo .	indiana adjutant gen. martin umbarger tells the journal gazette ( http://bit.ly/ifixsc ) that large plans such as the c-130 would n't even fit into the hangars at fort wayne 's air national guard base .	the air force has proposed moving the 122nd fighter wing 's current a-10 fighter jets as part of military spending cuts .	u.s. rep. mike pence said during visit to the base tuesday that he supported umbarger 's push to keep the a-10s there .	the republican candidate for governor says fort wayne should " dig in and make the case " for it remaining a fighter jet base .
adams state university is freezing new enrollments in its print-based correspondence courses pending an external review of the student verification process .	the university took the action in response to a report of fraudulent activities by a person who said he completed assignments and exams and bribed test proctors on behalf of student athletes .	according to the alamosa valley courier ( http://tinyurl.com/my6856m ) , adams state university president david svaldi said the university has tried to prevent cheating and he is reviewing new recommendations to guarantee academic integrity .	students currently enrolled in correspondence courses will be allowed to complete them and the courses will continue to be available to students enrolled through the colorado department of corrections .
the medical examiner 's office has identified the california man who apparently drowned while trying to save a woman at oahu 's waimea falls .	the 31-year-old was identified monday as kris gungon of imperial , calif. .	the honolulu fire department said he disappeared beneath the surface after going into the water to help a woman in distress on sunday .	hawaii news now reports lifeguards managed to save the woman .	the honolulu star-advertiser reports gungon 's body was later found about 25 feet below the surface .
if you think you 're a picky hotel guest , check out the pet peeves of anthony melchiorri , who critiques hotels for a living and hosts a new show called " hotel impossible " on the travel channel .	melchiorri is freaked out by dirty grout , hates internet fees and always checks hotel rooms for something he almost ca n't bear to name .	on the show , which airs monday nights ( 10 p.m. et/pt ) , melchiorri advises hotels on how to improve everything from facilities to service to decor with a goal of increasing sales .	he 's brought his in-your-face , can-do assessments to properties ranging from gurney 's , a historic beachfront inn in montauk , n.y. , in the hamptons , to a boutique hotel , the new yorker , in miami 's artsy mimo district .	this week , he visits the purple orchid in california wine country .	melchiorri has been in the hospitality business for 20 years and has helped reposition storied manhattan hotels like the plaza and the algonquin .	but he has n't lost touch with what the average traveler experiences in those first few minutes in a hotel , and he shared that process with the associated press .	the lobby : " when i walk into a hotel , i want the illusion that my stay is going to be perfect .	i want to see the bellman greet me .	i want to see that the paint is n't chipping .	i want the front desk to engage me , treat me like a person , so that i know any problem i may have , they will take care of me .	by the time i get to the elevator , i 'm already starting to be comfortable . "	biggest fear : " as soon as i walk in the room , i put my luggage in the bathroom because that 's the safest place away from any insects .	i say insects because i do n't even want to use the word .	now i inspect the bed .	i 'm looking at the seams of the mattress and headboard , end tables , the side of the bed .	let me be clear : most hotels do n't have bed bugs .	i have never found a bed bug in a hotel .	but i never put my luggage on the bed , ever .	and once i realize there 's nothing living in the bed , i look for a metal luggage rack and put my luggage on that . "	( metal repels bed bugs ; they prefer wood . )	the routine : " i bolt the door to the room , and if there 's an adjoining room , i check the door to make sure that room is locked .	i can not tell you how many times people have walked in on me .	i also look in the shower , sink and tiles for dirty grout .	i ca n't get in a shower with dirty grout , not even in my own house .	it freaks me out .	then i open up the ironing board , i make sure it 's functional , i look to see that there 's no water in the iron and i put it in a corner of my room so it 's ready to use .	and then i unpack .	... i have a plastic liner from the drycleaners and i put that in the drawer first . "	the exhale : " now that i know my room is clean , i can forget that i 'm a germaphobe .	i can forget that i did n't want to touch the remote control .	if the hotel does its job , and gives me the illusion that it 's perfect , then my defenses go down .	but if there 's a dirty hallway or a light bulb is out or an employee was rude to me , then my cootie-ometer is up . "	pet peeves : rooms that do n't have enough electrical outlets ; alarm clocks that go off at 4 a.m. because the maid did n't turn off the previous guest 's setting ; hotels that charge for internet . "	the algonquin hotel was famous for hosting a lot of writers .	when dorothy parker was sitting there at the algonquin round table , and she needed a pen , she got a pen for free .	today we write using the internet .	why should i charge somebody for the internet if i do n't charge them for a pen ? "	the phone call : " i once implemented a policy at a hotel that every single guest be called by the front desk within 10 minutes of being in the room to make sure they did n't need anything .	but then i started getting complaints from people . '	i just got in my room , i was in the bathroom , i thought my wife was calling !	if i need you , i 'll call you ! '	so i stopped the phone calls to guests . "	nothing fancy : " i really enjoy three-star , limited service hotels like holiday inn express and small boutique hotels like kimptons .	you get your free internet , your mini-mart , your free breakfast , the room has a beautiful mattress .	it 's everything i need .	the service is not intrusive but a lot of times , i do n't want to deal with anybody . "	online reviews : " i find online reviews to be very accurate .	i use them every single day .	if there are 100 reviews , then you go through them , and i always check the four terrible reviews just to make sure there 's nothing that 's unacceptable to me .	if you 're an educated consumer , you can make your own decisions about whether the person who complained about a mushy strawberry in the fruit basket should be taken seriously .	i mean , really ?	you have bigger problems in your life . "
late october flooding in central texas has left behind more than $ 14 million in damage as officials continue to assess the cost of cleanup .	emergency manage officials on tuesday updated travis county commissioners .	the austin american-statesman ( http://bit.ly/17madrw ) reports the damage is not expected to be near the $ 35 million threshold for local governments to get federal disaster help .	emergency management coordinator pete baldwin says the $ 14.4 million in travis county damage is a preliminary figure .	the estimate includes damage in austin and pflugerville ( floo ' - gur-vihl ) , as well as uninsured and underinsured homes and businesses .	baldwin says many homeowners may be eligible for individual assistance from the federal emergency management agency .	at least six deaths have been blamed on last month 's storms and flooding in central texas .
a grand jury in northwest georgia has indicted a former judge on criminal charges including witness tampering and conspiracy to distribute drugs .	the seven-page indictment accusing former murray county chief magistrate judge bryant cochran of the crimes was filed tuesday in u.s. district court in north georgia .	a grand jury handed down the indictment , charging cochran with a total of six counts .	along with the witness tampering and drug distribution allegations , the other counts accuse him of depriving someone 's rights or conspiracy against rights .	the indictment states that georgia 's judicial qualifications commission began investigating allegations of judicial misconduct involving cochran around july 19 , 2012 .	he resigned as murray county 's chief magistrate on aug. 15 , 2012 , which resolved the commission 's investigation .
the new u.s. census results show that rhode island is one of the slowest-growing states in the country .	rhode island 's population grew by about one-half of one percent since 2000 .	that represents an increase of just under 4,900 people over the past decade , from 1,048,315 to 1,053,209 .	but unlike massachusetts , rhode island will not be losing any of its two seats in the u.s. house of representatives .	overall , the nation grew more slowly than in past decades .	its 9.7 growth rate for the past decade was the lowest since the great depression .	the other slowest-growing states in the country are louisiana and michigan .	the fastest-growing states include nevada , arizona and utah .
a u.s. woman who faked having cancer so donors would pay for her wedding and caribbean honeymoon was sentenced wednesday to the nearly two months she has already served in jail .	jessica vega , who apologized for the scam , was expected to be released later in the day from the new york jail where she has been held since april 25 .	a prosecutor said she has paid back more than $ 13,368 to victims in the scam .	vega claimed in 2010 that she was dying of leukemia and wanted a " dream wedding " to michael o'connell , the father of her baby .	donors gave rings , a wedding dress and other goods and services .	o'connell later questioned the story , and they divorced .	vega was arrested april 3 in virginia , where she was back with o'connell .	she pleaded guilty to charges of scheming to defraud and possession of a forged instrument .	when asked before sentencing how his 25-year-old client was doing , lawyer jeremiah flaherty replied : " not good . " "	she 's never been in jail in her life .	... it 's had a toll on her , " flaherty said .	flaherty told the judge that vega misses her two young children .	o'connell said vega will live with his family .	outside the courthouse , o'connell said he was relieved the ordeal was over .	he said there was a chance the two could rekindle their relationship , " as long as she does n't mess up again . "
pdi inc. , which provides sales and marketing services to the biopharmaceutical industry , said tuesday it signed a contract that will bring it about $ 45 million over the next 18 months .	pdi did not identify the new client , but said the contract is focused on women 's health .	it expects $ 17 million in revenue from the contract in 2010 , and forecast $ 800,000 in startup costs in the second quarter .	pdi said it will provide about 150 sales representatives to the biopharmaceutical client .	those sales representatives will contact primary care physicians and women 's health specialists .	shares of pdi rose 32 cents , or 4.2 percent , to $ 7.93 in morning trading .
a 33-year-old man listed among the u.s. secret service 's " most wanted fugitives " is now in federal custody and facing charges for allegedly leading a counterfeit check ring in st. louis .	the u.s. attorney 's office in st. louis on tuesday announced the arrest of 33-year-old dante sumlar .	authorities say the ring distributed bogus checks at various banks throughout the st. louis area in 2009 and 2010 .	they say sumlar has been hard to track down because he has used several aliases .	florida and alabama authorities have been seeking sumlar in connection with similar crimes since 2007 .	the allegations against him were featured on tv 's " america 's most wanted " in 2008 .	sumlar was jailed and it was n't immediately clear if he had an attorney .
a judge has dealt a blow to prosecutors trying to prove a new york police officer plotted to kill and eat women .	federal judge paul gardephe made several rulings thursday on what can be admitted into evidence at the trial of officer gilberto valle .	in almost every instance , he ruled for the defense .	in one ruling , the judge said an fbi agent can not testify about cellphone data unless the government can show he used reliable methods to produce his facts .	the government has said it will use cellphone data to prove the officer was doing surveillance on potential kidnap victims .	defense lawyers say valle had no criminal intent .	the judge also excluded two pictures and a video .	and he says he 'd let the founder of a fetish website testify from russia via videotape .
the state 's appeals court has upheld a lower court 's decision that the bristol county sheriff 's office was liable in a sexual harassment case involving a female former employee .	sheriff thomas hodgson tells the standard times the department will not appeal the judgment , leveled against the department and one of its officers , who has since retired .	lori gonsalves had alleged that not only had she been sexually harassed by a male coworker , but that senior officers failed to intervene when she complained .	gonsalves , who resigned before charges were filed , was awarded $ 61,700 in back pay and $ 100,000 in punitive damages .	the court rejected department arguments that the sheriff 's office was n't liable because it had no knowledge of the complaints .
( ap ) ?	republican alex mooney , who moved to west virginia from maryland last year , was elected to congress on tuesday to represent the 2nd district , allowing republicans to hold on to the seat vacated by rep. shelley moore capito .	mooney fended off accusations of political opportunism and tied his opponent , democrat nick casey , to president barack obama , who is deeply unpopular in the state .	casey is a former west virginia democratic party chairman . "	for too long , president obama and his allies have unilaterally usurped the power entrusted to congress to inflict a host of painful regulations on our businesses and families , " mooney said in a speech following his victory . "	but we west virginians are fighting back . "	capito vacated the seat after seven terms to run for senate , which she won .	mooney said he would work with capito to rein in environmental protection agency regulations and " defeat the war on coal . "	obama lost all 55 counties in west virginia in 2012 .	as the coal industry spirals downward , many politicians in both parties blame the president 's energy policies .	specifically , many oppose efforts to curb carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants .	casey and mooney both said they would fight those efforts , although mooney said casey would be a rubber stamp for obama 's policies .	casey disputed that notion .	both said they supported expanding domestic energy production to rely less on international sources .	and both said they want to defund various programs within the epa that affect the state .	mooney has also said he wants to replace obama 's health law with free-market changes , such as allowing the sale of health insurance across state lines and expanding health savings accounts .	for his part , casey painted mooney as a political opportunist .	while gop chairman in maryland , mooney raised $ 115,400 for a potential congressional bid .	in january 2012 , he decided against a congressional run when gop rep. roscoe bartlett chose not to retire .	mooney , who was a state senator in frederick , maryland , moved about 25 miles to charles town in the eastern panhandle in early 2013 and filed to run for the 2nd district that summer .	in a speech following his victory , mooney said he and his family are west virginia residents by choice .	mooney called on republican allies , including u.s. house speaker john boehner , to campaign for him .	mooney has said he supports a balanced budget amendment to the constitution .	mooney also signed a " do n't fund " pledge that supported passing a budget only if the affordable care act was defunded .	the push in congress led to a government shutdown .	mooney has also signed the americans for tax reform 's " no new taxes pledge . "
the parents of an erie-area girl are warning others on facebook that a man who allegedly harassed their daughter on the way to church on sunday is no longer in jail .	nineteen-year-old thor perry was cited for harassment after the 13-year-old girl reported sunday 's incident .	the girl tells millcreek township police that perry approached her and asked her to have sex and use drugs with him as she walked to church .	police say they could n't detain perry because the charge is a misdemeanors and he did n't physically accost or attack the girl .	they say perry had been living in a local motel , but the owner says perry has moved out .	the associated press could not immediately locate a residence for perry , and online court records do n't list an attorney for him .
alabama 's voluntary pre-kindergarten program is expected to see a roughly 40 percent increase thanks to increased funding .	commissioner of the department of children 's affairs , jeana ross , told al.com ( http://bit.ly/12lvdg7 ) monday that grant funding has helped state officials to form pre-kindergarten programs at 93 new schools .	the legislature increased funding for the pre-kindergarten program from $ 19.1 million to $ 28.5 million for fiscal year 2014 .	jeremy king , spokesman for gov. robert bentley , says he plans to offer more details on the planned expansion later this week .	about 3,900 children attended pre-kindergarten programs at 217 sites during the 2012-2013 school year .	officials expect 1,670 additional children to participate in the programs next year .
tracy police are asking for the public 's help after a cab driver 's report of two run-ins with the same armed man in two nights .	police spokesman sgt. tony sheneman tells the contra costa times the first incident occurred at about 8 p.m. monday , when a man pulled a gun at a hotel , demanded a ride to stockton , then robbed the driver of his cash and fled .	the next night , the driver told police he was in the parking lot of the comstock card room in tracy when the same man who 'd robbed him the night before pulled a gun and tried to grab him .	the driver got away , went into the card room and called for help .	sheneman says the victim told police he does n't know why he 's being targeted .	anyone with information is urged to call tracy police at 209-831-4550 .
a new company has taken over some school bus routes in knox county after a fatal crash .	wbir-tv ( http://on.wbir.com/1dxk3r7 ) reports rick fawver offered on saturday to discontinue his contract with knox county schools for the routes he operated after a bus he owned was involved in the dec. 2 crash .	officials approved fawver 's request and reassigned his routes .	a preliminary investigation by knoxville police found that two buses were traveling in opposite directions on asheville highway when the driver of one made a sudden left turn across the concrete median and crashed into the other bus .	two children and a teacher 's aide were killed in the crash .	school officials say they are reviewing their agreement with robert burroughs , the other contractor who had a bus involved in the crash .
calling her " a lindsay lohan wannabe , " a judge has fined " jersey shore " star nicole " snooki " polizzi $ 500 and ordered her to perform community service after she pleaded guilty to disturbing others on a new jersey beach in july .	her lawyer said wednesday that polizzi was under the influence of alcohol when she stumbled around the beach in seaside heights , using loud language that disturbed other beachgoers .	polizzi apologized to police and anyone else she bothered , claiming her behavior was not scripted as part of the show , even though cameras were rolling .	municipal court judge damian g. murray gave her credit for one day of community service that she spent caring for abused and neglected animals at a zoo sunday .
the first woman to join the new hampshire 's federal bench has been sworn in at a ceremony said to have drawn a record crowd of hundreds of colleagues and friends .	landya ( lahn-dee-yah ) mccafferty of portsmouth was sworn in friday after remarks by 1st circuit court of appeals chief judge sandra lynch ?	the first woman appointed to that court .	mccafferty has served as a u.s. magistrate judge for new hampshire for three years and is a former federal public defender , disciplinary counsel to the new hampshire supreme court and civil litigator .	she was lauded for her integrity , compassion , intellect and sense of humor and received a standing ovation after taking the oath of office .	mccafferty was nominated by president obama in may and confirmed by the u.s. senate in december .
the tennessee highway patrol is taking steps to try to make the fourth of july holiday period as safe as possible .	according to a news release , the agency will use predictive analytics to allocate manpower and target areas where the likelihood of alcohol-related , serious injury or fatal crashes may occur during the holiday period .	state troopers will also conduct saturation patrols , and sobriety and seat belt checkpoints .	twelve people were killed in tennessee during last year 's fourth of july holiday period .	that 's down from the 19 vehicular deaths during the 2013 holiday period .	of last year 's 12 traffic fatalities , seven were vehicle occupants and five were motorcyclists .	four of the individuals killed were not wearing seat belts and three of the traffic deaths were alcohol-related .
an arkansas swimmer has qualified for the u.s. olympic trials in the 100-meter breaststroke at the razorback aquatic club 's summer invitational .	schools officials say nikki daniels improved on her career best time for the long-course event by more than a second when she swam 1:11.67 on saturday .	other razorback swimming and diving team members making the cut are liz braun ; chelsea franklin ; julia kucherich ; anna mayfield ; nicole menzel ; jillienne schilling ; haley smith ; alison templin ; katie whitbeck and susanna white .	the u.s. olympic trials are scheduled for june 25 to july 2 in omaha , neb.
mike barnes has always had a canine companion in his second-grade classroom at st. jude elementary school in fort wayne .	during his 43 years of teaching there , he has regularly made up stories about woofus , a pup who goes on sometimes-ordinary , sometimes-outlandish adventures .	the imaginary dog was his way of engaging students .	but since september , barnes has had a real dog in his class , a yellow labrador retriever named felda who has become a beloved school mascot even as she works daily to assist barnes , 67 , who has lost most of his sight .	felda spends school days lounging comfortably next to barnes ' desk or in the front of the classroom under the blackboard .	often , she gets stories read to her by eager students , who have learned not to talk to her or pet her while she 's working ?	a rule that gets bent for a time every friday .	the dog goes everywhere with barnes ?	on playground duty at recess , to lunch and even to church , where she has been known to sleep through mass. . "	she has only one fault .	when she gets tired , she snores , " barnes says . "	really loud . "	barnes says he decided to get a guide dog last year when he realized he was losing a long battle with blindness .	about 12 years ago , barnes lost central vision in his left eye because of degenerative myopia .	an uncommon condition , it 's caused in nearsighted people by a progressive or sudden stretching of the eye that damages the retina .	two years later , his right eye was affected , although he retains partial vision ?	enough to see things close to him , but not enough to allow him to read the blackboard or grade students ' papers .	told of his problem then , officials at st. jude decided to accommodate what might have been a career-ending disability by assigning barnes a teacher 's aide , jane svarczkopf .	last year , when he decided to get a dog to help with his mobility , st. jude principal sister kathleen knueven and the rev. tom shoemaker , parish priest , were supportive again . "	he 's too good a teacher , " says knueven , who made sure none of barnes ' students had dog allergies and gave parents the option of having their children in barnes ' class .	twenty-seven agreed .	during last summer 's vacation , barnes flew to california for a monthlong orientation with felda , who was placed with him by guide dogs for the blind , based in san rafael .	the dog was raised and trained from puppyhood by a third-grade teacher who had already accustomed her to the classroom , barnes says .	she is so well-behaved that students say they 've never heard her bark in class . "	sometimes they ask , ' is she a real dog ? ' "	barnes says .	nick kucharski , 7 , of fort wayne says felda is nothing like his dog at home , an american bulldog named roxanne who wiggles all the time and barks a lot . "	she 's a nice dog , " he says of felda . "	she helps mr. barnes see and walk .	she makes me feel happy . "	felda 's main job , barnes says , " is stopping at the curb and stopping at steps when they come up and noticing anything unusual . "	he says he can still see shapes but has a hard time distinguishing objects at a distance . "	by the time i can make out a car coming , it would be too late , " he says . "	a cane does n't have a second pair of eyes . "	felda has already gotten him out of a tight spot or two , including one day when she stopped suddenly while he was walking down the street .	he then realized that she had seen a car quickly backing out of a driveway right in front of him .	at school , when he walks felda around the playground , " she has her own little entourage .	all the girls follow her around , " barnes says . "	the children are very good with her .	they know not to pet her , but they like her a lot . "	and she has fit seamlessly into other aspects of his life as well ?	sales clerks at the grocery store where he and wife mary shop regularly know her name , as do the waitresses at cosmo 's , where he likes to have breakfast .	every morning when he gets dropped off at school , everyone says hello to felda ?	usually first ?	says barnes , who is retiring at the end of the school year . "	it 's ' good morning , felda .	good morning , felda . '	everyone at school knows felda , from kindergarten up to eighth grade .	everybody knows felda . "
michael chabon , novelist , screenwriter and father of four , has a new responsibility .	he has been elected chairman of the board of the directors of the macdowell colony , the century-old artist residency program based in peterborough , n.h. chabon , best known for his pulitzer prize-winning " the amazing adventures of kavalier & clay , " replaces robert macneil , author and television newsman who is retiring monday after serving 17 years .	macneil turns 80 in january . "	like anything you do for a very long time , it 's time to move on , " macneil told the associated press on monday during a joint interview with chabon .	chabon , 47 , has been a resident nine times at macdowell , where he wrote part of " kavalier & clay , " and said that he was eager to contribute to an institution that had done so much for him .	he said he had been offered the position two years ago , but turned it down because his children were still too small .	now , with the youngest 7 , he is ready to make the occasional trip east from his home in berkeley , calif. , where he lives with fellow writer ayelet waldman . "	i feel such a sense of obligation and debt to the place , " he said . "	i 'm far more productive there than anywhere else .	i get more done there in two weeks than i would in three or four months at home .	you 've built up all this energy .	it 's like getting a hose unkinked .	i do n't think i ever had a stay at macdowell that did n't include one breakthrough . "	macdowell was founded in 1907 as the fulfillment of a dying wish of composer edward macdowell , who had loved spending summers in peterborough and wanted other creative people to have the same experience .	the colony has been a refuge for such artists as thornton wilder , who wrote " our town " there , and jonathan franzen , who worked on his novel " the corrections . "	george gershwin composed part of " porgy and bess " at the same studio where chabon has often worked .	the colony is laid out on 450 acres and accepts 250 artists a year , for stays up to two months .	despite the current recession , the colony has managed to keep to its annual budget of $ 3.5 million , in part by drawing more from its endowment .	the outside world is remote from macdowell , but not entirely shut out .	it 's possible to get a signal on your cell phone , if you stand in the right place , but wi-fi has not been installed .	macneil wanted chabon to succeed him because he thinks the author is an ideal model for the next generation ?	open to different genres and art forms , enlightened about gender and racial diversity .	and chabon may help bring more artists from the west coast . "	we 've done a good job on the areas of diversity that are usually more difficult ?	race and gender , " macneil said . "	but many of our artists still come from the east .	we are always telling ourselves we want to represent all parts of the country . "	chabon said he has not yet come up with any plans for new projects at macdowell .	he also has to consider whether he can still attend as a resident . "	i would hate to be cutting off the possibility , " he said . "	it 's not out of the question , but i would have to apply like anyone else . "
authorities say a savannah man fought back against a suspected intruder by punching him through his newly shattered bedroom window .	britt campbell tells wtoc-tv he was about to fall asleep when he heard commotion on his patio saturday morning .	he said moments later his bedroom window was shattered .	he said he used his left hand to punch through the partially shattered window glass , connecting with someone on the other side .	the savannah morning news reports that police questioned a suspect after he sought treatment at a hospital for cuts to his arm and hand .	police said they charged the suspect , 27-year-old samuel green iii , with burglary .	it was n't known whether green has an attorney , and a phone listing for him could not be found .	campbell said he 's fed up with crime in his neighborhood .
major indexes fell modestly , bringing the standard & poor 's 500 index 10 percent below its recent peak in april , something traders call a market correction .	the dow jones industrial average opened at its lowest level since december after a 275-point sell-off on friday ignited by grim economic signals , especially a dismal report on the u.s. labor market .	randy frederick , managing director of active trading and derivatives at the brokerage charles schwab , expects trading to remain slow and steady unless traders are moved by positive news , like a surprisingly strong economic report , or fresh fears about europe 's financial stability . "	when the market goes sideways like this , volume tends to trickle off , " frederick said . "	you 've got to find a catalyst for people to enter the market , and frankly , i just do n't see one right now . "	in europe , bond investors appeared less concerned about the finances of some financially troubled countries .	bond yields fell for italy and spain , meaning that they appear less likely to default .	lower bond yields mean decreased borrowing costs for those debt-strapped nations .	the standard & poor 's 500 index fell nine points to 1,268 as of 12:15 p.m. edt .	the index has fallen 10.6 percent since its recent peak of 1,419 , reached on april 2 .	since then , traders have grown increasingly nervous about europe .	spain 's banks are in shambles , and cyprus appears close to joining the club of bailed-out countries that already includes greece , portugal and ireland .	voters in greek elections this month might choose leaders who intend to reject europe 's bailout money and harsh spending cuts .	that could lead to greece 's expulsion from the euro , potentially rattling financial markets .	the dow fell 58 points to 12,060 .	the nasdaq composite index fell 16 to 2,731 .	european stocks closed mixed .	asian shares had fallen sharply , extending friday 's selling .	the price of the 10-year u.s. treasury note fell , lifting its yield to 1.50 percent .	the yield hit a record low of 1.44 percent on friday as fears of a global slowdown increased demand for safe investments .	falling bond yields for spain and italy added to signs of growing confidence that europe can avoid a messy breakup .	the euro rose a penny against the dollar , to $ 1.25 .	it fell last week to a nearly two-year low against but rose after the may jobs report renewed concerns about the u.s. economy .	among u.s. stocks making big moves , chesapeake energy rose 4 percent after the company said it would replace four board members .	the second-biggest u.s. natural gas company is under pressure from activist shareholder carl icahn , who owns a 7.6 percent stake in chesapeake .	homebuilder lennar fell 4 percent , following an 8 percent drop friday .	the stock has dropped 12 percent in two days after surging 38 percent in the first three months of the year .	earlier monday , asian markets appeared rattled by friday 's u.s. jobs report and signs of slower growth in china .	the shanghai composite index fell 2.7 percent , its biggest slide of 2012 .
world stock markets were higher friday as oil prices eased and wall street stabilized after two days of sharp losses amid a political revolt threatening to topple the government of opec-member libya .	oil prices hovered above $ 98 a barrel in asia ?	down from $ 103 the previous day ?	after experts said the crisis in libya may have cut crude supplies less than previously estimated .	in currencies , the dollar was higher against the yen and narrowly up against the euro .	european bourses bounded upward in early trading as investors shook off caution over the events in libya .	britain 's ftse 100 rose 0.4 percent to 5,940.75 .	germany 's dax was up 0.2 percent to 7,143.40 and the cac-40 in paris rose 0.3 percent to 4,021.59 .	wall street was set to gain , with dow jones industrial futures 0.4 percent higher to 12,080 and s&p 500 futures up 0.3 percent to 1,306.80 .	key indexes in asia closed higher after struggling early in the day to find direction .	japan 's nikkei 225 stock average rose 0.7 percent to close at 10,526.76 and south korea 's kospi also added 0.7 percent , to 1,963.43 .	hong kong 's hang seng index jumped 1.8 percent to 23,012.37 and australia 's s&p / asx 200 was 0.6 percent higher at 4,836.50 .	the benchmark shanghai composite index was virtually unchanged at 2,878.57 , and down 0.7 percent for the week , while the shenzhen composite index edged up less than 0.1 percent to 1,280.30 in lackluster trading .	huaxin cement co. , which has seen strong gains recently on expectations of sustained strong demand for construction materials , hit the daily upward limit of 10 percent . "	with the annual session of the national legislature beginning next week , shares are trending with forecasts for the government 's plans .	since the government plans to build more than 10 million low-cost housing units , cement companies saw strong gains , " said peng yunliang , an analyst at shanghai securities in shanghai .	toyota motor corp. ended 2.1 percent higher .	u.s. investigators closed an investigation into the japanese automaker after it agreed to recall another 2.7 million vehicles to address accelerator pedals that could become trapped in floor mats or jammed in driver 's side carpeting .	that satisfied the transportation department that toyota 's recalls for pedal entrapment were sufficient .	airline stocks that had sagged after the spike in the cost of crude regained their stride after the international energy agency said the rebellion in libya may have cut oil production less than originally feared .	saudi arabia also pledged to increase production to make up for any shortfalls .	cathay pacific airways ltd. jumped 3.6 percent , korean air lines vaulted 4.8 percent , and qantas airways ltd. rose 2.1 percent .	but analysts cautioned that the end of the crisis was not yet in sight and that prices will likely spiral upward . "	i think oil prices are going to trade higher , even with saudi assurances .	i think opec wants to see higher oil prices , " said tom kaan of louis capital markets in hong kong . "	i am not optimistic on airlines or the transport sector . " "	oil is pretty much unpredictable , but in the short term , i do not see oil trading back at $ 85 a barrel .	i think the floodgates are open for oil prices " and they could go as high as $ 120 , kaan said .	meanwhile , new zealand 's benchmark retreated 0.1 percent three days after an earthquake in the second-largest city of christchurch killed at least 113 people .	in new york on thursday , investors were relieved to see oil prices fall for the first time in nine days .	the dow jones industrial average fell 37.28 points , or 0.3 percent , to 12,068.50 .	the broader standard & poor 's 500 index fell 1.30 , or 0.1 percent , to 1,306.10 .	the nasdaq composite rose 0.6 percent to 2,737.90 .	the nation 's gross domestic product rose at a 3.2 percent annual rate in the october-december quarter .	the u.s. commerce department will update its fourth-quarter estimate later friday .	economists think the figure will be revised up slightly to 3.3 percent .	in currencies , the dollar rose to 81.94 from 81.77 yen late thursday .	the euro slipped slightly to $ 1.3802 from $ 1.3807 following a sharp rise over the past 10 days .	analysts said the gains in previous days were probably due to expectations that european interest rates would be raised before federal reserve chairman ben bernanke does the same in the u.s. higher rates typically support a currency 's value .	benchmark crude for april delivery was up $ 1 to $ 98.28 a barrel in electronic trading on the new york mercantile exchange .	the contract fell 82 cents to settle at $ 97.28 a barrel on thursday .
a former arapahoe county sheriff accused of trading methamphetamine for sex has waived his right to a hearing on evidence in the case .	sixty-nine-year-old patrick sullivan appeared in court in centennial on monday with his attorneys .	prosecutors were ready to present the evidence supporting the charges against him but sullivan decided against it .	he declined to comment about the case but , when asked how he 's doing , sullivan said " great .	it 's a beautiful day . "	sullivan was the sheriff in arapahoe county from 1984 until 2002 .	he faces charges of possession of methamphetamine , distribution of methamphetamine , attempting to influence a public servant and solicitation of a prostitute .	he 's free on bond and due back in court april 3 for an arraignment .
students at public colleges around louisiana will face higher costs this fall .	lawmakers on the legislature 's joint budget committee agreed wednesday to allow tuition increases of up to 5 percent on campuses for the upcoming 2010-11 school year .	the tuition increases are estimated to raise $ 31.5 million for the schools next year .	for students on lsu 's main campus , the annual tuition increase will be $ 262 , bringing tuition to $ 5,495 , according to data from the board of regents .	students at uno will pay $ 219 more a year , raising tuition to $ 4,591 .	louisiana tech university 's tuition will rise by $ 205 , to $ 5,326 a year .	other schools ' tuition hikes range from $ 74 to more than $ 200 .	college leaders , meanwhile , are asking lawmakers to give them authority to raise tuition even higher .	that bill is pending in the state senate .
a toddler has been struck by a car in charles county and was seriously injured .	the charles county sheriff 's office says the toddler was struck sunday afternoon in the area of lyles place and middletown road in waldorf .	authorities say the boy 's parents took him to a fire station across the street .	firefighters and medics took the boy to a hospital .	authorities say the boy is in critical condition .
the u.s. unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in four years , indicating friday that employers are confident about the economy despite the fiscal austerity triggered by higher taxes and deep government spending cuts .	the rate dropped to 7.7 percent as employers added 236,000 jobs in february .	the jobless rate is now at its lowest since president barack obama entered office .	the upbeat report fits with other big economic news of recent days , including surging stock prices and steady home price increases that have finally allowed americans to regain the $ 16 trillion in wealth they lost to the great recession .	job growth has averaged more than 200,000 a month since november .	stocks rose on the report , putting the dow jones industrial average on track for a fourth straight record close .	still , white house economist alan krueger noted in a statement that the new unemployment rate was measured before $ 85 billion in automatic budget cuts started taking effect .	the administration has warned that the cuts could have a negative impact on employment and economic growth .	the jobless rate had been stuck at 7.8 percent or above since september .	the rate declined last month because the number of unemployed fell 300,000 to just over 12 million , the fewest since december 2008 .	more than half the decline occurred because 170,000 of the unemployed found jobs .	another 130,000 gave up on their job searches .	people who are n't looking for jobs are n't counted as unemployed .	the unemployment is calculated from a survey of households , while the job gains come from a survey of employers .	employers added slightly fewer jobs in january than the government had first estimated .	job gains were lowered to 119,000 from an initially estimated 157,000 .	still , december hiring was a little better than first thought , with 219,000 jobs added instead of 196,000 .	robust auto sales and a steady housing recovery are spurring more hiring , which could trigger more consumer spending and stronger economic growth .	the construction industry added 48,000 in february and has added 151,000 since september .	manufacturing has gained 14,000 last month and 39,000 since november .	retailers added 24,000 jobs , a sign that they expect healthy consumer spending in the coming months .	education and health services gained 24,000 .	and the information industry , which includes publishing , telecommunications and film , added 20,000 , mostly in the movie industry .	the economy is also benefiting from the federal reserve 's efforts to keep interest rates low .	lower rates have made it easier for americans to afford new homes and cars .	the fed has said it will keep the benchmark rate that it controls near zero until unemployment has fallen to 6.5 percent , as long as inflation remains in check . "	this may not yet be the substantial improvement in the labor market outlook that the fed is looking for , but it 's moving in the right direction , " paul ashworth , an economist at capital economics , said in a note to clients .	the brighter hiring picture has yet to cause a flood of out-of-work people who are n't looking for a job to start seeking one .	the proportion of americans either working or looking for work dipped one-tenth of a percentage point in february to 63.5 percent , matching a 30-year low .	even though the recession officially ended in june 2009 , many americans have remained discouraged about their job prospects and have given up looking .	others have returned to , or stayed in , school .	and the vast generation of " baby boomers " ?	those born between 1946 and 1964 ?	have begun to retire .	their exodus reduces the percentage of adults working or looking for work .	further strong hiring gains will hinge , in part , on healthy consumer spending .	so far , higher gas prices and a jan. 1 increase in social security taxes have n't caused americans to sharply cut back on spending .	across-the-board government spending cuts also kicked in march 1 after the white house and congress failed to reach a deal to avoid them .	those cuts will likely lead to furloughs and layoffs in coming weeks .	the congressional budget office has estimated that the cuts mean government spending will drop $ 44 billion in the budget year that ends sept. 30 .	that reduction , slightly more than 1 percent of federal spending , will likely hold down hiring in spring and summer , ryan sweet , a senior economist at moody 's analytics , said .	but more hiring and pay increases now should ease the blow .	hourly wages rose 4 cents to $ 23.82 last month .	wages have risen 2.1 percent in the past year , slightly ahead of inflation .	a big source of strength has also been home sales and residential construction : new-home sales jumped 16 percent in january to the highest level since july 2008 .	and builders started work on the most homes last year since 2008 .	home prices rose by the most in more than six years in the 12 months that ended in january .	higher prices tend to make homeowners feel wealthier and more likely to spend .
union parish voters in ward 3 will go to the polls on may 3 to vote on a number of liquor law reforms that could permit alcohol in the last remaining dry ward in the parish .	ward 3 touches spearsville , parts of farmerville and some unincorporated areas of the parish .	police jury president a.j. smith , who represents the affected area , tells the news-star ( http://tnsne.ws/1jlthgd ) on tuesday the movement to bring alcohol to the area started when the bridges grocery store management wanted to sell beer .	joe bridges , who owns the grocery store , said passing the proposals would help keep revenue in the parish because the current laws force people to go elsewhere to spend money .
conservative activists from across the midwest are gathering this weekend in suburban st. louis for a pep rally of sorts .	the conservative political action conference on saturday is to feature dozens of speeches and panel discussions on topics such as tax cuts and immigration law changes .	headline speakers include texas gov. rick perry and former pennsylvania sen. rick santorum , who both ran unsuccessfully for the republican nomination for president in 2012 .	others on the agenda include kansas gov. sam brownback and u.s. sens. roy blunt of missouri , tom coburn of oklahoma and mike lee of utah .	the event in st. charles is sponsored by the american conservative union .	it 's the only regional cpac gathering of the year .	the group held a national conference in march in the washington , d.c. , area .
a new age of paying by credit card , key fob and smartphone is slowly evolving as the struggling vending world tries to court a new generation that would rather touch screens than coins .	the vending industry is so intent on convincing gen y that it 's become tech-savvy that the industry 's key trade group is hosting a traveling tour of its " dream machines . "	the tour opens friday in new york city . "	we now have machines that look and act like giant ipads , " says dan mathews , coo at the national automatic merchandising association . "	we 're changing the stereotypes . "	driving the revamp : an evolving world of users populated less by lunchtime factory workers and more by college students with midnight munchies .	as the economy has tanked , u.s. vending sales steadily slipped , slowing to about $ 43 billion last year .	and many grade schools continue to ban vending machines that sell sugar-laden and calorie-rich candies and soft drinks . "	to attract gen y consumers , the industry must install mobile-wallet platforms in all college vending machines , " says allen weintraub , an industry consultant .	it 's certainly vying for gen y with : - social vending .	( at ) pepsico has a prototype with a touch-screen that 's interactive .	folks can " gift " a beverage to a friend by entering the friend 's name and mobile number .	you can even personalize it with a short video .	- smart vending .	( at ) kraft is testing a touch-screen machine that lets you see close-up images of the package so you can read details such as ingredients and nutritional facts .	it also lets folks buy multiple snacks at a time .	- " talking " machines .	( at ) the largest vending machine maker , crane , has a machine that lets consumers buy snacks and drinks from several machines at one time but only pay once with a debit card , stored-value card or smartphone .	- made-to-order cotton candy .	( at ) for the sweet tooth set , a new machine , the vendever cotton candy factory , dispenses fresh cotton candy on a stick in less than a minute .	- made-to-order ramen noodles .	( at ) it takes a college kid to fully understand the munchies .	so leonard kang , a gen y entrepreneur and a university of chicago grad , has created the ramen noodle station , which makes fresh , customized ramen noodles -- in three minutes .	for you vending machine kickers , mathews warns , the new machines are built to withstand most lethal kicks .	some may even have tiny cameras to record the blows .
a pipeline near the town of mandaree on north dakota 's fort berthold indian reservation leaked 3,000 barrels of brine , state agencies confirmed monday in the second such incident at the reservation by the same company in as many months .	the north dakota industrial commission and the state department of health said the pipeline is operated by arrow water llc , a subsidiary of houston-based crestwood midstream partners lp .	the leak was discovered late friday .	also called saltwater , brine is an unwanted byproduct of oil production many times saltier than sea water .	it is considered an environmental hazard by the state .	in early july , a pipeline operated by another crestwood subsidiary leaked 1 million gallons , or 24,000 barrels , into the badlands near mandaree .	that incident was one of the largest oil field spills in state history .	the brine from the july spill traveled nearly 2 miles down into a ravine , killing vegetation along its path .	crediting a series of beaver dams with helping stem the flow of the fluid , the company and three affiliated tribe officials said the brine did not reach a tributary of lake sakakawea , a source of drinking water for the reservation .	bur recently the tribes ' environmental director , edmund baker , has publicly said the brine did reach the lake .	the july spill has led to a criticism from tribal members upset over what they see as a lack of information from the tribes and crestwood about an incident that may have threatened their water supply .	no water test results have been made public .	there are few details about the latest spill .	a spill report said soil and vegetation could be polluted .	it adds that the spill has been isolated and cleanup crews have been mobilized .	the report also mentions that the area where the spill occurred slopes toward skunk creek bay or a tributary .	that bay is a tributary of lake sakakawea , but the environmental protection agency says there is no threat to water resources based on the information they received on friday .	crestwood and tribal leadership did not immediately return calls from the associated press on monday .
perry 's metropolitan community churches was then a lone spiritual refuge for openly gay christians , an idea so far from the mainstream that the founders were often chased from places where they tried to worship .	four decades later , some of the most historically important american denominations , which had routinely expelled gays and lesbians , are welcoming them instead .	mcc now has a presence in dozens of u.s. states as well as overseas , reporting a total membership of more than 240 congregations and ministries .	but as acceptance of same-sex relationships grows ?	gay and lesbian clergy in many protestant traditions no longer have to hide their partners or lose their careers , and christians can often worship openly with their same-gender spouses in the mainline protestant churches where they were raised ?	the fellowship is at a crossroads .	is a gay-centered christian church needed anymore ? "	there are many more options than there used to be , " said the rev. nancy wilson , moderator , or leader , of the metropolitan community churches . "	but there is not a mass exodus . "	the denomination has never been gays-only .	but for a long time , straight allies were scarce .	the founding congregation , mcc of los angeles , opened a year before the stonewall riots in new york .	few people had ever heard the argument that the bible sanctioned same-gender relationships and no one of any influence in the religious world was saying it .	mcc congregations became targets of arson , violence , pickets and , in at least one case , a vice squad .	al smithson , a founder in 1969 of the fellowship 's san diego church , said his pastor would point to orange county 's famous crystal cathedral and joke that he was praying for a bulletproof version .	the church today is a bit more diverse .	mcc pastors say they see a growing number of straight friends and relatives of gays and lesbians among their new congregants , along with heterosexual parents who want their children raised in a gay-affirming environment .	while some mcc congregations have n't changed much over the decades , wilson said , many are emphasizing a broad social justice agenda including serving the homeless and poor . "	we do n't have a rainbow flag on our website , nor do we have it on our building , " said the rev. dan koeshall , senior pastor at the metropolitan community church of san diego , which draws about 220 people for sunday services . "	it was n't a decision that caused any controversy or split .	it 's just been moving in that direction .	we know that our target audience is the lgbt community .	but we 're also attracting people who are saying , ' yes , i stand in solidarity with you and i want to be part of this . ' "	it 's remarkable the denomination has endured at all .	metropolitan community churches brings together many different christian traditions under one banner that often struggle to stay friendly in the outside world .	perry , now 72 and retired , is a pentecostal who started preaching when he was just a teenager in rural florida .	the rev. mona west , the fellowship 's director of clergy training , graduated from the flagship seminary of the southern baptist convention .	but a large number of mcc clergy train in liberal protestant seminaries .	the common denominator is a belief that christians can be in a same-sex relationship and still be faithful to scripture . "	you can go from one mcc to another and have a radically different flavor , depending on the region , the clergy and congregants , " said scott thumma , a hartford seminary sociologist and co-editor of the book " gay religion . "	the fellowship expanded relatively quickly from its humble beginnings .	within months of founding the first congregation in los angeles , perry started receiving letters and visits from people hoping to establish mcc churches in other cities .	two years later , new congregations had formed as far away as florida .	within five years , the church had spread overseas .	then , the 1980s arrived and with it , the aids crisis .	metropolitan community churches plowed its resources into ministries for the sick , dying and grieving .	the fellowship lost several thousand members and clergy to the virus , and the business of starting new churches slowed .	as a result , wilson and others say the denomination missed out on crucial period for potential growth .	but the church has also lost some congregations , including its biggest , to other denominations .	the cathedral of hope in dallas , a megachurch with about 4,200 members , split off around 2003 , and eventually joined the united church of christ .	cathedral and mcc officials say the break resulted from disagreements between local church members and local leaders , not a rejection of mcc 's mission .	the cathedral maintains its focus on reaching out to gays , lesbians and transgender people .	still , the united church of christ , which has more than 5,000 congregations and roots in colonial new england , can offer much that the mcc can not , including more resources , greater prominence and a broader reach .	in some communities , local churches are affiliating with both the metropolitan community churches and united church of christ .	but at least one other mcc congregation broke away in recent years : the columbia , s.c. , church became the garden of grace united church of christ . "	it makes us more than a one-issue church , " the rev. andy sidden , the church 's pastor , told the state newspaper of columbia , in a 2006 interview .	like many other churches coping with a weak economy , the mcc has cut or restructured staff jobs in the last five years and reduced the annual payment congregations pay the national office , wilson said .	some smaller mcc churches have closed .	yet , despite the losses , wilson and others see a continuing role for metropolitan community churches , given the wide range of responses to gays and lesbians in organized religion , even in the more liberal churches that have moved toward accepting same-gender relationships .	of the mainline protestant groups , only the united church of christ supports gay marriage outright .	the episcopal church last month released a provisional prayer service for blessing same-sex unions .	the evangelical lutheran church in america and the presbyterian church ( u.s.a. ) have eliminated barriers for gay clergy but allow regional and local church officials to decide their own policies .	one of the largest mainline groups , the united methodist church , with about 7.8 million u.s. members , still bars ordination for people in same-sex relationships , although many individual methodist churches openly accept gay and lesbian clergy . "	there 's ' come and do n't say anything , ' ' come , but we wo n't marry you , ' or ' come and be fully accepted , ' " said the rev. jo hudson , senior pastor of the cathedral of hope . "	we 're always glad when churches welcome gay and lesbian people , but it 's just a different experience in a church that is historically and predominantly led by heterosexual people .	everyone is going to find the church where they most fit in . "	wilson said a large percentage of newer mcc members are from conservative christian churches teaching that gay and lesbian christians should try to become heterosexual or remain celibate .	koeshall was a pastor in the assemblies of god , one of the largest u.s.-based pentecostal groups , until 1997 , when he says , " i came out and i got kicked out . "	new mcc congregations have recently started in peoria , ill. , and in the villages retirement community north of orlando , fla. ( in a recent announcement in local gay media , the peoria congregation described mcc as a fellowship created for gay and lesbian christians now known as " the human rights church . " )	mary metcalf , 62 , a seven-year member of heartland metropolitan community church in springfield , ill. , which started the peoria congregation , said she was a lector and liturgy coordinator at her roman catholic parish until some friends brought her to a service . "	when it came time for communion , when the presider said that the table is open to everyone , i started crying , " said metcalf , on a break from painting heartland church with other volunteers . "	i came from the catholic church .	i 'm straight , but i just finally had to come to a parting of the ways .	i did n't think jesus kept anyone away from the table . "	still , like most denominations , mcc is seeing its strongest growth overseas .	in latin america , the fellowship had seven churches in five countries a decade ago , and now reports 56 congregations or ministries in 17 countries , according to the rev. darlene garner , director of mcc 's emerging ministries .	a congregation in australia for young adults , called crave , is thriving , wilson said .	garner 's office is also developing an online church with worship , bible study and support in several languages .	mcc has already conducted its first virtual baptism on the web , a relatively new practice that is gaining popularity among evangelical churches with online worship .	thumma contends mcc should not be judged by the standards used for other denominations .	only a small percentage of americans are gay or lesbian , and a limited number want to be active in a christian church , no matter its outlook .	like other minority groups moving toward mainstream acceptance , some gay christians are assimilating into bigger denominations while others choose the focus and freedoms mcc provides , thumma said . "	mcc still has a clear function , " thumma said . "	like an immigrant community , it gives gay christians a place of their own . "
missouri 's democratic attorney general chris koster has more money for a gubernatorial campaign than all of his republican rivals combined .	new campaign finance reports released wednesday show koster has more than $ 3.9 million to spend on the race for governor in 2016 .	he raised almost $ 1 million in the past three months .	four announced gop candidates and two others expected to run together have about $ 3.7 million .	former missouri house speaker and u.s. attorney catherine hanaway leads republicans with $ 1.5 million in her account .	former navy seal eric greitens of st. louis is next with $ 1.1 million to spend if he officially announces his candidacy .	koster is the only democrat with plans to run for governor .	democratic gov. jay nixon is barred from seeking re-election because of term limits .
five people have been killed and 400 houses set ablaze in the latest wave of the forest fires plaguing russia , the emergencies ministry said friday .	fires blazed across much of european russia in august following weeks of drought and record-high temperatures .	a thick pall of smoke from the fires covered moscow for several days .	although heavy rains have helped quench the fires in much of the country , the southern regions of volgograd , saratov and samara remain hot and dry .	a ministry statement said the new fires were fanned by high winds and some started when the winds caused power lines to cross , shooting off sparks .	the fires were most intense in the volgograd region , where 380 houses were burned in 20 populated areas .	in saratov , 20 houses burned .	in the samara region , traffic on a main highway near the automobile manufacturing city of togliatti was diverted for hours because of fire .	the ministry said its tanker planes and helicopters had made about 60 sorties to drop water on the fires by midday .
two new york legislators are filing a bill that would keep their long island county from accepting toxic wastewater from drilling in a gas-rich region that includes new york .	suffolk county legislator kara hahn and deputy presiding officer wayne horsley say a sewage treatment plant in west babylon should not become a dumping site for hydraulic fracturing ?	or hydro-fracking .	chemicals are used to extract gas from within the earth .	the suffolk plant was named as a potential site to process the waste in a draft environmental impact statement prepared by the state 's department of environmental conservation .	hahn says she 's dumfounded anyone could think an environmentally-sensitive area like long island would be a good site .	in some communities , gas from hydrofracking has leaked into drinking water , setting it afire .
internal affairs is investigating why an off-duty miami-dade police officer was n't taken to jail after authorities say he was found passed out drunk in his patrol car .	police director jim loftus says he gave explicit orders that 32-year-old fernando villa be treated like anyone else after he was found tuesday at a west kendall intersection .	but the miami herald ( http://bit.ly/shsmsk ) reports that villa was not handcuffed and booked into jail .	instead , he was allowed to go home after signing a form promising he would appear in court .	loftus says internal affairs will find out who altered his instructions . "	promise to appear " notices are generally given for low-level misdemeanors , not felonies or duis .	it was n't immediately clear who drove villa home .	villa has been relieved of duty with pay pending an investigation .
the ohio prisons agency is renewing a contract to feed the state 's 50,000 prison inmates with a company whose early troubles getting the job done led to criticism over privatizing the service .	the agency rejected a counter-proposal by the state employees ' union after a four-person panel determined the union 's plan would cost too much .	state prisons director gary mohr told ohio 's state contracting agency tuesday it was authorized to renew the contract with philadelphia-based aramark correctional services through june 30 , 2017 .	the company faced criticism last year over understaffing , running out of food , and a few cases of maggots near food prep areas .	a message was left with the ohio civil service employees association .
prosecutors are urging an appeals court to uphold the convictions of a kansas doctor and his wife convicted in a moneymaking conspiracy linked to 68 overdose deaths .	documents filed tuesday with the 10th circuit court of appeals argued dr. stephen schneider and his wife , linda , had a fair trial despite the involvement of a national patient advocate .	the couple was convicted in 2010 of unlawfully prescribing drugs , health care fraud and money laundering .	the doctor was sentenced to 30 years , his wife to 33 years .	their new attorneys contend their trial lawyers had a conflict of interest that allowed the advocate to direct defense strategy .	but the government argues the couple waived rights to conflict-free representation in separate hearings before two federal judges .	prosecutors say they got a fair trial .
security forces and plainclothed gunmen opened fire on crowds of yemenis marching through a southern city monday , killing at least six and wounding more than 30 , in an intensifying crackdown against the uprising against the 32-year rule of president ali abdullah saleh .	witnesses described troops and gunmen , some on nearby rooftops , firing wildly on thousands of protesters who marched past the governor 's headquarters in taiz in the second straight day of violence in the southern city .	some ?	including elderly people ?	were trampled and injured as the crowds tried to flee , witnesses said .	the bloodshed in taiz further stoked the nearly two-month-old uprising against saleh .	the opposition has been holding continual protest camps in main squares of the capital sanna and other cities around the country , and on monday new demonstrations in solidarity with the taiz protesters erupted in several places ?	including the red sea port city of hodeida , where security forces also opened fire on marchers .	violence has grown amid frustration over the failure of behind-the-scenes efforts to find a formula to remove saleh while maintaining a stable transition in this fragmented nation , where poverty and tribal divisions are widespread .	saleh 's crackdown has been so harsh ?	killing at lest 97 since protests began feb. 11 ?	it propelled many of his key allies to the opposition , but still he has refused to step down immediately .	yemen 's opposition parties over the weekend put out their most detailed outline yet for a handover of power , proposing that saleh step down to be replaced by his vice president , who would oversee a dialogue on reforming the constitution and planning elections .	but the broad opposition is not unified on the idea , with some activists organizing the protests opposed to the vice president stepping in .	the violence in the mountain city of taiz began when thousands of protesters down its main street toward freedom square , where demonstrators have been camped out , surrounded by security forces .	as the march passed the governor 's headquarters , troops stationed there blocked the procession , and clashes broke out , with some protesters throwing stones , witnesses said .	troops on nearby rooftops opened fire with live ammunition on the crowd and the marchers then turned to besiege the governor 's headquarters , said bushra al-maqtara , an opposition activist in taiz , and other witnesses . "	it was heavy gunfire from all directions .	some were firing from the rooftop of the governor 's building , " said one man in the crowd , omar al-saqqaf .	he said he saw military police load the bodies of two slain protesters into a car and then speed away .	at least six protesters were killed and more than 30 wounded , some with gunshots to the head and chest , said zakariya abdul-qader , a doctor at a clinic set up by protesters in freedom square .	other doctors at the clinic confirmed the figure .	the military has clamped down on the city of nearly half a million , about 120 miles ( 200 kilometers ) south of the capital , sanaa .	for a second day , tanks and armored vehicles blocked entrances to the city to prevent outsiders from joining the protests .	they also surrounded freedom square , bottling up the thousands in the protest camp there and arresting anyone who tries to exit .	saleh 's top security official in taiz , abdullah qiran , to oversee security in taiz , is accused by demonstrators of orchestrating some of the most brutal crackdowns against demonstrators , particularly in the southern port town of aden , where he was previously stationed until his transfer several weeks ago .	on sunday , police attacked a march by thousands of women in taiz , sparking a battle with a separate group of male protesters .	saleh has offered to resign by the year 's end and says leaving without a negotiated transition , would lead to chaos .	the president 's spokesman , ahmed al-sufi , said sunday that the president is only " ready to discuss the peaceful handover of power according to the constitution . "	but the opposition has pressed for his immediate departure .	the 65-year-old leader is a key ally for the united states , which has provided his government with millions in counterterrorism aid to fight the al-qaida branch that has taken root in yemen and has plotted attacks on american soil .	the reliance on saleh has left washington struggling with how to deal with the uprising .	u.s. officials have stopped short of calling on the president to step down immediately .
more than 10,000 people have joined a legal settlement that will pay hundreds of millions of dollars to ground zero workers exposed to toxic world trade center dust .	the near-universal acceptance of the deal was announced by a court friday .	it will mean an end to most litigation over new york city 's failure to provide protective equipment to construction workers , police and firefighters who cleared rubble .	only around 500 of the thousands who sued the city over the cleanup declined to take the offer .	at least 95 percent had to sign on to make the deal effective .	it just cleared that hurdle , with 95.1 percent .	the settlement will provide at least $ 625 million .	related deals could boost that total to more than $ 725 million .
the demise of osama bin laden complicates what was already a tough call for president barack obama : how to wind down the nearly decade-old war in afghanistan .	now the symbolic reason for staying in the fight ?	to get al-qaida 's leader and avenge 9/11 ?	has been undercut .	momentum had been building in congress and elsewhere for a shift to a narrower , less costly military mission in afghanistan even before the u.s. raid that killed bin laden .	this could suit obama 's desire to put afghanistan behind him by beginning a phased troop pullout this summer along with nato partners .	but it also could put him at sharper odds with his military commanders , who argue for a slower drawdown and a longer-term military commitment that they believe would lessen the chances of afghanistan again falling apart .	u.s. commanders fear squandering hard-fought battlefield gains , particularly those achieved with the addition last year of an extra 30,000 american troops .	they now face a spring offensive by the taliban , whose goal remains undermining the afghan government , discrediting its security forces and driving out u.s. troops .	sen. dick durbin , d-ill. , reflected a wider skepticism about remaining heavily involved in afghanistan when he said tuesday that he had not imagined at the outset of the war in october 2001 that u.s. troops would still be there ? "	with no end in sight , even after the death of osama bin laden . "	top administration officials have vowed not to abandon afghanistan , even as the u.s. military role shrinks , and their central rationale is not changed by the elimination of bin laden .	they point to 1989 and the u.s. decision to walk away from afghanistan after the soviet occupation collapsed ; chaos ensued , the taliban rose to power and al-qaida had a launch pad for global terror .	the worry is that the pattern would be repeated if the u.s. left anytime soon , giving terrorists a haven and compelling a future president to intervene yet again . "	nobody wants them ( u.s. troops ) to leave and come home more than i do , but i do n't want them to go back , " sen. lindsey graham , an outspoken supporter of obama 's plan to keep troops there until at least 2014 , told reporters .	his advice to the president : " stay with the plan you got . "	house speaker john boehner , r-ohio , who traveled to afghanistan , iraq and pakistan last month , said it was clear the administration 's plan is working . "	i do n't want to see us take any steps that jeopardize the progress we 've made , " boehner said in an interview with a handful of reporters .	coincidentally , just one day before obama gave the go-ahead for the nighttime raid on bin laden 's compound in pakistan , he announced a new u.s. lineup in afghanistan , with lt. gen. john allen replacing gen. david petraeus as the military commander and ryan crocker succeeding karl eikenberry as the top u.s. diplomat .	but obama did not say this meant a change of war strategy .	sen. john kerry , d-mass. , acknowledged the likelihood that bin laden 's death would increase public pressure to bow out . "	some people will ask why we do n't pack up and leave afghanistan .	we ca n't do that , " said kerry , who will travel to afghanistan in the coming weeks . "	but it is no longer enough to simply lay out our goals .	we need to determine what type of afghanistan we plan to leave in our wake so that we may actually achieve these objectives . "	bin laden 's death also highlighted rising u.s. frustration with pakistan , whose fragile government is heavily funded by washington as a hedge against militants .	pakistan has a history of supporting some militant groups that target outsiders , including u.s. soldiers in afghanistan .	white house spokesman jay carney said the u.s. is committed to cooperating with pakistan despite questions about who in the islamabad government may have known that bin laden was in hiding in abbottabad . "	we are working very hard on that relationship .	it is an important and complicated relationship that has been tested in many ways over the years , " carney said . "	we do n't know who if anybody in the government was aware that bin laden or a high value target was living in the compound .	it 's logical to assume he had a supporting network .	what constituted that network remains to be seen . "	cia director leon panetta told time magazine that the u.s. ruled out informing pakistan of the coming raid early on , because " it was decided that any effort to work with the pakistanis could jeopardize the mission .	they might alert the targets . "	congress may consider cutting the almost $ 1.3 billion in annual aid to pakistan if it turns out the islamabad government knew where bin laden was hiding , the head of the senate intelligence committee said tuesday .	sen. dianne feinstein , d-calif. , said she wants more details from panetta and others .	panetta and other senior officials were on capitol hill on tuesday to brief lawmakers on the bin laden raid and its implications .	other lawmakers are raising questions about the afghanistan war in light of a growing u.s. budget deficit , expected to hit $ 1.6 trillion this year . "	with al-qaida largely displaced from the country but franchised in other locations , afghanistan does not carry a strategic value that justifies 100,000 american troops and a $ 100 billion per year cost , given current fiscal restraints , " said sen. richard lugar of indiana , the top republican on the foreign relations committee , at the start of a series of hearings on afghanistan .	lugar said obama needs to spell out what constitutes success in afghanistan .	although the number of al-qaida fighters in afghanistan is believed to be 100 or fewer , they are still a focus of u.s. commanders .	maj. gen. john campbell , commander of u.s. forces in eastern afghanistan , said saturday that his troops killed " our no. 1 targeted insurgent , " a saudi national whom he described as an al-qaida senior leader who moved frequently between afghanistan and pakistan and directed al-qaida operations in afghanistan 's kunar province .	campbell said he had been a top target since 2007 .	the airstrike that killed that al-qaida figure is the kind of targeted operation that some believe should be the main feature of the u.s. military strategy in afghanistan ?	rather than a broader counter-insurgency strategy designed to help the afghans build government institutions , revitalize their economy and promote reconciliation with the taliban resistance .
the orleans parish sheriff is to blame for reckless inmate behavior caught on videos that showed inmates using drugs and brandishing a handgun in a cell , a city official testified wednesday .	another video among those released a day ago showed a new orleans man wandering the french quarter , claiming he was supposed to be locked up at the time .	deputy mayor andy kopplin was testifying wednesday in a hearing on whether a federal judge should approve an agreement for jail improvements between sheriff marlin gusman and the justice department .	kopplin said state law tasks the city with funding the jail , but the sheriff with running it . "	the sheriff simply ca n't manage that jail regardless of the amount of money , " kopplin said . "	that 's why we 've been talking about receivership . "	mayor mitch landrieu has been pushing for federal authorities to put the jail under federal receivership and place someone other than gusman in charge of it .	gusman was expected to testify at the hearing , perhaps as early as wednesday .	he also has said he would hold a wednesday news conference .	the city objects to the potential cost of the jail agreement , known as a consent decree .	officials say it could jeopardize funding of police and other vital municipal services in a city where landrieu and the city council have already made major cuts , along with imposing higher property taxes and fees , since the mayor took office 2010 .	city officials say they were largely left out of negotiations over the jail consent decree .	kopplin was questioned by justice department attorney laura coon , who pointed to correspondence between federal and city officials as evidence that the city was involved .	kopplin said he doubted city lawyers would characterize the interaction as " negotiation , " contrasting it with exhaustive meetings the city had with federal attorneys over a separate agreement to reform the police department .	still , u.s. district judge lance africk , presiding over the case , pointedly said that he was involved in some discussions involving the city . "	those negotiations took place , " he said at one point , while adding that it would n't affect his decision on whether to approve the jail pact .	the video was allowed into evidence by africk at the behest of lawyers for the city .	officials said they only recently learned that gusman 's office had the video , which appears to have been made by an inmate and is believed to have been recorded in 2009 .	released to reporters at midday tuesday , the images are shaky at times , but clear .	one cuts from a neighborhood scene of women and children on a street to a scene inside the jail , with inmates smoking , swallowing , snorting and injecting what are believed to be drugs .	cash changes hands during a jail cell dice game .	some inmates drink from cans of beer .	cell phones are visible .	one inmate ejects bullets from a large handgun . "	you can get what you want in here , " a prisoner is heard saying in the background . "	medication .	pills .	drugs .	heroin . "	another video shows a man strolling up and down bourbon street , peering into strip joints , occasionally chatting with passing police on patrol and at one point looking at the recorder and saying : " y' all know i 'm supposed to be in jail right now . "	it is unclear whether that video was shot the same night or how the man had gotten out of jail if he was , indeed , supposed to be in the lockup .
graftech international ltd. said wednesday that the justice department 's antitrust division has asked for more information about the company 's proposed acquisitions of seadrift coke and c/g electrodes .	graftech , one of the world 's biggest makers of graphite electrodes used in steel production , said it still expects the justice department to clear the deals and that they will close in 2010 .	seadrift coke is one of the main producers of a critical material used in the manufacture of graphite electrodes .	c/g electrodes is another manufacturer of graphite electrodes .	graftech shares were unchanged in extended trading , following the announcement .	they had risen 12 cents , or 0.8 percent , to close the regular trading session at $ 15.27 .
the three-day aintree festival , headlined by the 4 ?	- mile ( 7,200-meter ) slog that is the grand national steeplechase , begins on thursday with as much focus on whether horses get round the grueling course in northern england in one piece as on who wins the races .	twenty-one horses have died over the feared grand national fences since 2001 .	the number of fatalities is on the slide , according to the british horseracing authority , which has modified the course in recent years in the face of stinging criticism .	but for some , the changes ca n't go far enough . "	we look forward to the day when it will be consigned to the history books , " animal aid campaigner fiona pereira said of the grand national .	animal aid claims the race has been " five times more dangerous for horses than other jumps races " based on figures from 1987 and 2013 .	the bha points to figures that show the national has been three times more dangerous than other jumps races over the last 10 years .	authorities and lovers of horse racing can find themselves in a difficult place during the aintree meeting , which will be attended by an expected 150,000 people .	for the grand national on saturday , britain can come to a standstill .	an estimated 600 million people typically watch the race on tv around the world and organizers say more people bet on the national than any other racing event by some distance .	it means , however , there is no place to hide when tragedy strikes ?	as so often has happened over the past decade .	two horses died in the 2011 and '12 races .	the 2013 national passed controversy-free ?	all 40 runners returned unscathed ?	but two horses died across the festival .	and with four horses dying at cheltenham last month , it remains a hot topic .	the bha says it has invested more than 1.5 million pounds ( $ 2.5 million ) in safety and welfare measures since 2009 and has " left no stone unturned in seeking to reduce risk to both horse and rider whilst maintaining the grand national 's unique character . " "	the evidence shows that races over the grand national course are becoming safer , " the bha said in an e-mail to the associated press , " reflecting the measures that have been implemented to raise welfare standards .	in races run over the grand national course , including the grand national itself , the average injury and fatality rate over the last 10 years has decreased compared to that over the last 20 years . "	modifications for the 2013 meeting included restyling fences ?	removing wooden stakes and replacing them with a more forgiving plastic material ?	moving the start forward and away from the grandstands to create a calmer environment , and levelling the landing side of some fences , including the fearsome becher 's brook .	there have been no more changes in the past 12 months , despite many calling for the 40-horse field to be decreased to reduce the carnage seen at some fences as horses get in each others ' way . "	reviews have provided no evidence to suggest that a reduced field size would reduce the risk of injury to horse or rider , " the bha says .	the grand national has prize money of 1 million pounds ( $ 1.66 million ) for the first time this year owing to a new sponsor .	bookmakers will be hoping for a repeat of last year , when a 66-1 shot ?	auroras encore ?	romped to a nine-length win in one of the race 's biggest shocks .	teaforthree is the 8-1 ante-post favorite and is bidding to become its first welsh-trained winner since 1905 .	the 13-year-old tidal bay is the top weight in the handicap race ?	no horse older than 12 has won since 1923 ?	and monbeg dude has received plenty of attention as it is part-owned by former england rugby player mike tindall and has been given jumping lessons by his wife , zara phillips , the grand-daughter of queen elizabeth ii .	arguably the biggest race away from the grand national is the betfred bowl on thursday , which should be a contest between dynaste , silviniaco conti and first lieutenant .
fewer ohio prisoners than ever are going back to prison after they 've been released , the state announced wednesday , attributing the drop to community programs that work with newly released prisoners , and new prison units that prepare people for life outside bars .	the department of rehabilitation and correction says the current inmate return rate of 27.1 percent , down from 28.7 percent a year ago , is far below the national rate of 40 to 44 percent .	the rate affects not just the prison system 's bottom line but the bigger goal of reducing crime in ohio , prisons director gary mohr said . "	if our people being released from prison are committing less offenses , then we have less crime victims , " mohr told the associated press . "	i think that 's the most important piece . "	saving money on prison operations also means more state dollars can be spent earlier in people 's lives on things like education , he added .	going forward , the expansion of medicaid is expected to help connect incarcerated people to needed resources as they come home .	the state projects that roughly 366,000 residents will be newly eligible for coverage by the end of june 2015 by increasing the state-federal health care program for poor children and families .	mohr says a lower return rate will also help the state reduce its prisoner population , currently about 50,500 .	a 2011 sentencing law meant to lower the number has n't had the desired impact , leading to fears that the state may need to spend millions to build a new prison after 2017 , while pushing judges to rethink sentences and placing a greater emphasis on rehabilitation .	the current prison population has n't changed much since 2011 , despite projections that it would drop to 47,000 by 2015 and continue to decline .	ohio 's prisoner population could grow to 52,000 in two years and top 53,000 in six years , mohr warned last year .	the state is currently at 134 percent of capacity and could hit 139 percent by 2019 .	california 's system was declared unconstitutional at 140 percent , meaning federal courts could intervene and order expensive changes .	it 's not that the 2011 law is failing .	challenges , including a recent increase in violent crime and an uptick in cases filed by prosecutors , are holding back promises that the law would lower the prisoner population .	ohio supreme court chief justice maureen o'connor has said the courts are also part of the problem and called on judges to be more diligent about reducing the number of offenders behind bars .	the rate announced wednesday is based on a three-year study of inmates released in 2010 .
fly shop manager jim bernstein was warned that hair stylists would come banging on his door , but he did n't listen .	sure enough , less than 24 hours later , a woman walked into the eldredge bros. .	fly shop in maine and made a beeline toward a display of hackles ?	the long , skinny rooster feathers fishermen use to make lures . "	she brought a bunch up to the counter and asked if i could get them in pink , " he said . "	that 's when i knew . "	fly fishing shops nationwide , he learned , are at the center of the latest hair trend : feather extensions .	supplies at stores from the coasts of maine to landlocked idaho are running out and some feathers sold online are fetching hundreds of dollars more than the usual prices . "	i 'm looking around the shop thinking hmmm , what else can they put in their hair ? "	bernstein said .	fly fishermen are not happy , bemoaning the trend in online message boards and sneering at so-called " feather ladies . "	some also blame " american idol " judge and rocker steven tyler , who began wearing the feathers in his long hair . "	it takes years and years and years to develop these chickens to grow these feathers .	and now , instead of ending up on a fly , it 's going into women 's hair , " said matt brower , a guide and assistant manager at idaho angler in boise . "	i think that 's the reason a lot of people are a little peeved about it , " he said .	the feathers are not easy to come by in the first place .	they come from roosters that are genetically bred and raised for their plumage .	in most cases , the birds do not survive the plucking .	at whiting farms inc. , in western colorado , one of the world 's largest producers of fly tying feathers , the roosters live about a year while their saddle feathers ?	the ones on the bird 's backside and the most popular for hair extensions ?	grow as long as possible .	then the animal is euthanized .	as hair extensions , the feathers can be brushed , blow dried , straightened and curled once they are snapped into place .	most salons sell the feather strands for $ 5 to $ 10 a piece .	the trend has become so popular a company online even sells feather extensions for dogs .	the craze has also left hairstylists scrambling to find rooster saddle feathers , as fly shops hold onto a select few for their regular customers .	the businesses will now ask if the feathers are for hairdressing , said shelley ambroz , who owns mirabella salon and spa in boise . "	if you go in and you 're a woman , they wo n't sell to you , " said ambroz , who started to eye her husband 's fly fishing gear after stores ran out . "	he told me to stay out of his feathers , " she said .	whiting farms is harvesting about 1,500 birds a week for their feathers and still ca n't keep up with its current orders , said owner and founder tom whiting , a poultry geneticist .	the company has stopped taking on new accounts . "	i 've tried to withhold some for the fly fishing world because when the fashion trend goes away , which it will , i 've still got to make a living , " he said .	the company was the one that told bernstein in maine several months ago that rooster saddle feathers had somehow become the latest coveted hair accessory .	bernstein said he scoffed at the notion that it could reach his shop along the coast of southern maine . "	this is maine , it 's not california .	we 're a little behind the trends here , " he said . "	i screwed up .	i should have said : ' send me everything you 've got . ' "	bernstein 's inventory of rooster saddle feathers has long been depleted .	about three weeks ago , he dusted off a rooster neck with feathers that had been set aside for fly tying classes at the shop .	the neck would have normally cost $ 29.95 , but the shop sold it for $ 360 .	it 's not uncommon to find a package of rooster saddle feathers that would have cost around $ 60 at a fly shop now priced from $ 200 to $ 400 .	a package of the most popular fly tying hackle for hair extensions , a black and white striped feather called grizzly saddle , would normally retail anywhere from $ 40 to $ 60 .	it sold for $ 480 on ebay last month after 31 bids .	at the boise salon , ambroz has stowed away enough feathers to last about six months .	on a recent tuesday evening , emilee rivers , 16 , sifted through a pile of rooster saddle feathers looking for the perfect strands to frame her face .	she picked out four and handed them to the stylist , who bonded them together with hot glue before clipping them into rivers ' blond hair .	brandi wheeler , 16 , was next .	there 's only one other girl at borah high school in boise who has the feather extensions , the teenagers said .	now , they were joining the select few . "	i 've wanted to get them for quite a while , " rivers said .	she went to the salon with her mom , kristi , who totally gets it . "	my dad on the other hand , he 's so confused , " rivers said . "	i told him what i was doing and he said : ' why would you get feathers in your hair ? ' "
a 21-year-old missoula man is charged with threatening his mother and beating her 15-year-old german shepherd dog , causing it fatal injuries , apparently while under the influence of drugs and alcohol .	jesse carl durham was charged wednesday with felony animal cruelty , misdemeanor partner or family member assault and two other misdemeanors .	he did not enter a plea .	justice of the peace karen orzech set durham 's bail at $ 25,000 .	he was arrested monday after his mother called police and reported her son had beaten her dog and thrown it in a dumpster .	officers located the dog and took it to a vet , who euthanized it due to the extent of its injuries , which included broken skull bones .	durham told investigators he had ingested alcohol , cocaine and hallucinogenic mushrooms before the incident and had no memory of the attack .
a pinellas county sheriff 's deputy is on administrative leave without pay after being arrested on grand theft charges .	according to an arrest affidavit 46-year-old detention deputy todd brown is accused of duplicating two payroll checks totaling $ 3,191.98 .	he was arrested friday .	the tampa bay times ( http://bit.ly/1bt9arz ) reports the checks were issued in november 2013 .	officials say duplicate paper checks were issued when brown 's bank reported that the direct deposits were n't made .	a subpoena later showed the direct deposits were made into his wells fargo account .	records show that brown also cashed the paper checks .	authorities say brown made no effort to notify the sheriff 's office of the duplicate checks until payroll officials contacted him in december .	he was released on a $ 2,000 bond .	no phone number was available for him .
federal authorities are investigating a security breach that compromised personal information of thousands of workers at the savannah river site near aiken .	the u.s. department of energy says no classified data was part of the information accessed .	officials say the data disclosure involved information from at least 12,000 workers at savannah river .	the department 's office of inspector general is investigating .	the 310-square-mile savannah river site once produced plutonium and tritium for atomic bombs .	work there is now focused mostly on research and cleaning up contaminated areas .
the nebraska emergency management agency says 10 dams failed when heavy rains fell and led to flooding earlier this week .	state assessment teams on saturday continued to survey damage to bridges , roads and other infrastructure amid ongoing flooding .	nema said saturday afternoon that dams had failed in atkinson , burwell , north loup , sargent , scotia , spalding and taylor .	the failure of bredthauer dam added water to the swollen mira creek and may have contributed to the need to evacuate north loup last saturday .	meanwhile , nema said , flooding continues along the north platte river in the panhandle , the platte river in kearney and ashland , the elkhorn river at pilger , west point and hooper , and the missouri river at nebraska city , brownville and rulo .
at the end of world war ii , british spies were in pursuit of a charismatic , multilingual german agent who had befriended hollywood celebrities and persuaded british and american detainees to broadcast propaganda for the nazis .	secret files from the mi5 spy agency declassified friday reveal the colorful story of werner plack , a german agent who moved from the film sets and nightclubs of prewar los angeles to the hotels of wartime berlin and occupied paris .	a nazi interrogated by mi5 described plack as a " freelance propaganda agent . "	mi5 said it was eager to find him because he had " taken part in the recruitment of british renegades " who helped the nazi war effort .	he was involved in persuading british comic writer p.g. wodehouse to make radio broadcasts from berlin for an american audience in 1941 ?	broadcasts that caused outrage in britain .	mi5 sources filled in a vivid picture of plack , described as having an " elegant appearance , " a " strong build " and " good teeth . "	u.s. officials told the british he had lived for years in los angeles , where he worked as a movie extra and for german consul georg gyssling , " his duties being to report to gyssling on important film personages . "	he also " was engaged in selling german wines to well known members of the film colony , " said the report , which added that plack " was reported to drink alcohol to excess and to possess a poor credit record . "	in june 1940 he got into a bar brawl with a man " who had expressed resentment at statements made by plack concerning hitler . "	in august 1940 , plack boarded a liner in san francisco bound for japan ?	carrying , u.s. authorities suspected , american secrets disguised in code in religious texts .	his papers were searched when the ship stopped in honolulu , but no coded messages were found .	plack returned to germany , where he worked for the foreign ministry to find english-speaking propagandists for the nazis .	witnesses reported seeing him in the presence of wodehouse , the creator of jeeves and wooster , whose controversial broadcasts led some in britain to accuse him of being a nazi collaborator .	questioned by mi5 near the end of the war , wodehouse called the broadcasts a " hideous mistake " and said " i never had any intention of assisting the enemy . "	and plack seemed to be disappointed in wodehouse .	a detainee told mi5 that " plack told me that the intention had been to use wodehouse for propaganda purposes , but he had refused , after having spoken a few times , to broadcast any more on the german radio . "	the file ends in december 1945 , at which point plack 's whereabouts were unknown .	online : http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/
pike county memorial hospital sits empty , much as it has for most of the past year .	county judge donald baker hopes the low-slung brick building wo n't be empty much longer .	pike county is moving forward with plans to sell the hospital and its 2.5-acre lot to louisville , ky.-based new directions health solutions llc .	the sale , which baker said should be finalized on sept. 1 , will be a relief to the judge . "	i 've got my fingers crossed , " baker said . "	i do n't know anything about running a hospital , and i do n't want to . "	the agreed purchase price is $ 2 million , baker said .	ndhs will use $ 1.7 million of that to recruit physicians to murfreesboro in southwest arkansas , about 65 miles northeast of texarkana .	the county will receive $ 300,000 .	baker said the company has already inspected the hospital .	ndhs representatives could not be reached for comment .	baker declined to provide contact information for the company , citing the pending sale .	a previous attempt to pass management of the hospital to an outside company did not end well .	southwest arkansas healthcare leased the medical center in july 2009 .	the county voluntarily suspended the hospital 's state licenses and closed the hospital in november after its owners allegedly wrote hot checks to a doctor .	the lease agreement was terminated in february .	baker said he 's confident ndhs will follow through with its commitment to purchase the hospital . "	i 've done some background checks of some of the people that own the company , and they have a lot of experience in the health care business , " baker said .	the county has until nov. 19 to reactivate the hospital 's state licenses before they expire .	ed barham , a spokesman with the arkansas department of health , said the hospital would undergo rigorous on-site surveys by state and federal inspectors prior to reactivation of the licenses , but said he could not give any details about pike county memorial 's status with the state .	since the closure of the hospital , the county has taken care of about $ 309,000 owed in federal payroll taxes , about $ 88,000 in unpaid salaries and $ 250,000 in debt to local banks , baker said , all paid for by a 3-8-cent temporary sales tax voters approved to fund the hospital .	if the sale to ndhs goes through , it will be the first time that the 52-year-old hospital will be in private hands .	a hospital board appointed by the county judge managed the hospital until mounting deficits forced a transfer to baker 's office in april 2009 .	the county still owned the hospital during the swah lease .	baker said it 's high time the hospital reopens , since it offers a convenient alternative to larger hospitals in hot springs and nashville .	it was also murfreesboro 's second-largest employer , with 55 workers .
a 19-year-old syracuse woman faces assault and child endangerment charges in the death of her 5-month-old daughter , who died of head trauma .	police say wanda trumble appeared in city criminal court sunday morning .	no bail has been set .	police did n't know if she has a lawyer yet .	syracuse police say nataliah trumble was brought to upstate university hospital by her father friday evening .	the baby died saturday .
the oakland school district is receiving a 10.5 million donation from kaiser permanente .	the kaiser foundation said monday that it is giving the money in the form of grants .	about $ 7.5 million will go to the district for school-based health centers , strategic planning and an african-american male-based achievement program .	mara larsen-fleming , a district program manager , tells the oakland tribune that there will be about 14 such centers by the end of the school year .	kaiser is also contributing $ 1 million to an oakland police violence-prevention and youth mentoring program for at-risk students and about $ 2 million for an educational monument and park in fox square , a new downtown development .	superintendent tony smith tells ktvu-tv that the money comes at " a really important time . "
gov. beverly perdue said wednesday she believes an inland drilling method for natural gas that 's opposed by some citizens and environmental groups but praised by others for helping with energy independence can be performed safely in north carolina .	hydraulic fracturing ?	or fracking ?	makes sense if it 's regulated and fees are in place to ensure inspectors are on the ground , perdue told wral-tv ( http://bit.ly/aw68ts ) .	a perdue spokesman said wednesday evening she has n't made up her mind on whether she 'll support efforts to make fracking legal in the state , however . "	it 's jobs .	it 's a fuel source produced in this country , and it 's something that can help america and north carolina be globally competitive , " perdue said .	the democratic governor , who is n't running for re-election , made the comments a week after she visited north-central pennsylvania to examine the process firsthand and talk with regulators and local officials .	it 's believed that natural gas that can be extracted from shale deposits in central north carolina , but opponents say the massive amounts of water and the chemicals used in the process raises health and groundwater concerns .	perdue said she believes north carolina could benefit from best drilling practices . "	i think the challenge for us will be to determine the capacity of our supply and whether the folks who live in this community are willing to move forward , " she added .	state lawmakers have been examining fracking and another method called horizontal drilling .	the department of environment and natural resources was expected to release before early next week a draft report mandated by the legislature to study the drilling methods and make recommendations on what steps the state should next take .	the general assembly would have to act again to develop regulations and potential permits for drilling .	perdue vetoed a bill last year that among other provisions would have required that fracking be examined more closely by the state , but she signed another law that included its own study .	the governor said at the time she vetoed the bill on unrelated grounds .	jon romano , communications director for perdue , said the governor will read and review the report before deciding whether or not she supports new drilling methods in the state .	pat mccrory , the former charlotte mayor and republican running for governor this year , said in an interview earlier this week that perdue has wasted her entire term in office delaying decisions on whether to pursue offshore and inland energy exploration .	instead , mccrory said , she took a " secret trip " to pennsylvania last week that few knew about .	other studies already have been completed without action following them by perdue , according to mccrory , who narrowly lost to perdue in the 2008 election . "	north carolina must get into the energy exploration business not only to help with our jobs but also to help with our energy independence , " mccrory told the associated press .	instead , he added , " we 've just stalled .	we 've done nothing but studying . "	a perdue spokesman said this week the governor 's pennsylvania trip march 5 was n't publicized because she was only gathering information and held no public events .	romano said mccrory would rather spend time attacking an outgoing governor " then talking about his republican friends at the legislature , who made deep cuts to education , which he supported . "	romano was referring to items in the state budget that became law despite her veto .	republicans have said the effect of the reductions has been exaggerated by democrats .
the state has dropped animal cruelty charges against the former director of the memphis animal shelter .	after a much-publicized raid by the shelby county sheriff 's office in 2009 , then-director ernest alexander and a top assistant were indicted .	the commercial appeal ( http://bit.ly/11ao28p ) reported the charges against alexander and tina quattlebam were withdrawn by prosecutor chris west .	he said the state could n't prove the charges had the case gone to trial .	defense lawyer herschel rosenberg said those responsible for starving animals at the shelter sat on the city council and kept cutting the shelter budget .	he said the state had no case .	a case against former shelter veterinarian dr. angela middleton went to trial in october and she was acquitted of charges .
snowfall in eastern north dakota and northwestern minnesota on presidents day is n't expected to affect the spring flood outlook .	the national weather service reports that 2-5 inches of snow fell in parts of the region monday .	fargo-moorhead got about 31/2 inches .	meteorologist jim kaiser tells the grand forks herald that the snowfall is not the beginning of a trend of " snow system after snow system . "	he says the monday snow should n't affect the flood outlook for the red river valley in part because of the dry fall and early winter .	the latest flood outlook shows little chance of major flooding in the valley this spring .
